--- 
title: Devi   
tags: silentgreen  
---  
## Devi  
Author: silentgreen         Date: May 21, 2010, 03:27:22 PM  
---  
**Swami Vivekananda 's experience at Kshir Bhavani**   
It is two or three days since Swamiji has returned from Kashmir. His health is  
indifferent. When the disciple came to the Math, Swami Brahmananda said,  
"Since returning from Kashmir, Swamiji does not speak to anybody, he sits in  
one place rapt in thought; you go to him and by conversation try to draw his  
mind a little towards worldly objects."   
The disciple coming to Swamiji's room in the upper storey found him sitting as  
if immersed in deep mediation. There was no smile on his face, his brilliant  
eyes had no outward look, as if intent on seeing something within. Seeing the  
disciple, he only said, "You have come, my son? Please take your seat", and  
lapsed into silence. The disciple seeing the inside of his left eye reddened  
asked, "How is it that your eye is red?" "That is nothing", said Swamiji and  
was again silent. When even after a long time Swamiji did not speak, the  
disciple was a little troubled at heart and touching his feet said, "Won't you  
relate to me what things you have seen at Amarnath?" By the disciple's  
touching his feet, the tensity of his mood was broken a little, as if his  
attention was diverted a little outwards. He said, "Since visiting Amarnath, I  
feel as if Shiva is sitting on my head for twenty - four hours and would not  
come down." The disciple heard it with speechless wonder.   
Swamiji: I underwent great religious austerities at Amarnath and then in the  
temple of Kshir Bhavani. Go and prepare me some tobacco, I will relate  
everything to you.   
The disciple joyfully obeyed the order. Swamiji slowly smoking began to say,  
"On the way to Amarnath, I made a very steep ascent on the mountain. Pilgrims  
do not generally travel by that path. But the determination came upon me that  
I must go by that path, and so I did. The labour of the strenuous ascent has  
told on my body. The cold there is so biting that you feel it like pin -  
pricks."   
Disciple: I have heard that it is the custom to visit the image of Amarnath  
naked; is it so?   
Swamiji: Yes, I entered the cave with only my Kaupina on and my body smeared  
with holy ash; I did not then feel any cold or heat. But when I came out of  
the temple, I was benumbed by the cold.   
Disciple: Did you see the holy pigeons? I have heard, in that cold no living  
creatures are found to live, but a flight of pigeons from some unknown place  
frequents the place occasionally.   
Swamiji: Yes, I saw three or four white pigeons; whether they live in the cave  
or the neighboring hills, I could not ascertain.   
Disciple: Sir, I have heard people say that the sight of pigeons on coming out  
of the temple indicates that one has really been blessed with the vision of  
Shiva.   
Swamiji: I have heard that the sight of the pigeons brings to fruition  
whatever desires one may have.   
Then Swamiji said that on the way back he returned to Srinagar by the common  
route by which the pilgrims return. A few days after returning to Srinagar, he  
went to visit Kshir Bhavani Devi and staying there for seven days worshipped  
the Devi and made Homa to her with offerings of Kshira (condensed milk). Every  
day he used to worship the Devi with a maund of Kshira as offering. One day,  
while worshipping, the thought arose in Swamiji's mind: "Mother Bhavani has  
been manifesting Her Presence here for untold years. The Mohammedans came and  
destroyed her temple, yet the people of the place did nothing to protect Her.  
Alas, if I were then living I could never have borne it silently." When,  
thinking in this strain, his mind was much oppressed with sorrow and anguish,  
he distinctly heard the voice of the Mother saying, "It was according to My  
desire that the Mohammedans destroyed this temple. It is My desire that I  
should live in a dilapidated temple, otherwise, can I not immediately erect a  
seven - storeyed temple of gold here if I like? What can you do? Shall I  
protect you or shall you protect me!" Swamiji said, "Since hearing that divine  
voice, I cherish no more plans. The idea of building Maths etc. I have given  
up; as Mother wills, so it will be." The disciple, speechless with wonder,  
began to think, "Did he not one day tell me that whatever I saw and heard was  
but the echo of the Atman within me, that there was nothing outside?"\-- and  
fearlessly spoke it out also --"Sir, you used to say that Divine Voices are  
the echo of our inward thoughts and feelings." Swamiji gravely said, "Whether  
it be internal or external, if you actually hear with your ears such a  
disembodied voice, as I have done, can you deny it and call it false? Divine  
Voices are actually heard, just as you and I are talking."   
The disciple, without controverting accepted Swamiji's words, for his words  
always carried conviction.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160418011550/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=0deacc5c04fcb36f78f852ffd9878b70&topic=5393.msg14917](http://web.archive.org/web/20160418011550/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=0deacc5c04fcb36f78f852ffd9878b70&topic=5393.msg14917)   
---  

## Re:[1] Devi  
Author: silentgreen         Date: May 21, 2010, 03:38:43 PM  
---  
**Condensed from the "The Esoteric Significance of Devi Mahatmyam" by Swami  
Krishnananda of Divine Life Society**   
The Devi-Mahatmya which is a majestic poetry in Sanskrit, describes to us the  
Epic of the march of the human soul to its destination, the realisation of  
this freedom, is the dramatic aspect of the great worship of the Divine Mother  
during these nine days of Navaratri or Dassehra as you call it. The march of  
the soul is dramatic. It is not a lagging or a crawling but a beautiful,  
sonorous, musical advent, you may call it. This is the beauty of the Devi-  
Mahatmya. All Epics have this particular character of grandeur, uplifting the  
emotions, and chastening the intellect of the devotee who goes through them.   
The Devi-Mahatmya is a part of the Markandeya Purana, containing thirteen  
chapters which are grouped into three sections, known as the Prathama  
Charitra, Madhyama Charitra and the Uttama Charitra.   
The march of the soul is graduated into three major steps, though there are  
many minor steps involved in these three major ones. While we have to rise  
through various rungs of the ladder of evolution, we come to three points or  
halting places, we may call them, where there is a complete transformation of  
outlook, attitude and constitution of our being. These threefold  
transformations of the spiritual being of the aspiring soul are dominated or  
presided over by three deities known as Maha-Kali, Maha-Lakshmi and Maha-  
Sarasvati.   
There are three stages of transformation described in the three sections of  
the Devi-Mahatmya. The first one is where Adi-Sakti awakes Maha-Vishnu who was  
asleep, so that He may destroy or overcome the original demoniacal forces,  
Madhu and Kaitabha. The second stage is where the same Sakti manifests Herself  
as Maha-Lakshmi and overcomes Mahishasura and Raktabija. The third one is  
where Sumbha and Nisumbha are destroyed by Maha-Sarasvati. And the nine days  
of worship comprehend these three stages adored in three days of worship,  
each. The final victory is called Vijaya-Dasami, the tenth day, as you know.  
That is the day of Victory, where you master the forces of Nature completely  
and your goal is reached.   
The lower powers of Nature are like dirt. We call them Mala, 'Vishnukarna-  
Malodbhuto Hantum Brahmanamudyato', says the Devi-Mahatmya. The Madhu and  
Kaitabha, two Rakshasas (demons) are supposed to have come out of the dirt of  
the ear of Vishnu. The lowest category of opposition is of the nature of dirt,  
Mala; and psychologically, from the point of view of the seeking soul, this  
dirt is in the form of Kama, Krodha and Lobha. 'Kama Esha Krodha Esha Rajo-  
guna Samudbhavah,' 'Kamah Krodhastatha Lobhah Tasmat Etat Trayam Tyajet'\--It  
is desire and anger born of Rajas; desire, anger and greed, these three  
therefore should be abandoned,--says the Bhagavadgita. These three are the  
gates to hell. These three are regarded as dirt, because they cover the  
consciousness in such a way that it appears to be not there at all. It is like  
painting a thin glass with coal-tar. You cannot see the glass. It is all  
pitch-dark like clouds. This has to be rubbed off with great effort.   
When this Mala or dirt is removed, we get into another trouble. Do not think  
that when you are tentatively a master of Kama, Krodha and Lobha, you are a  
real master of yourself. "There are more things in heaven and earth than your  
philosophy dreams of, O Horatio," said Hamlet. So do not think that your  
philosophy is exhaustive. There are many more things that philosophy cannot  
comprehend. Kama, Krodha and Lobha are not the only enemies. There are subtler  
ones, more formidable than these visible foes. As a matter of fact, the subtle  
invisible enemies are more difficult to overcome than the visible ones.  
Sometimes you know, an angry man is better than a smiling person. Smiling  
person is more dangerous than the angry one, because he can have a knife under  
his arm-pit. This is what we will face. When we manage somehow to overcome  
this Madhu and Kaitabha, Kama and Krodha, we get into the clutches of  
Mahishasura and Raktabija. They represent the Vikhepa Sakti, the tossing of  
the mind. Every minute the mind changes its forms which multiply in millions.  
You read in the Devi-Mahatmya, how Mahishasura changed his form. Now he is an  
elephant, now he is a buffalo, now he is something else. If you hit him in one  
form, he comes in another form. And this is your inexhaustible opponent. His  
energies are incapable of being exhausted. However much you may try to oppose  
the Vikshepa Sakti, it will manifest in some form or other. This is described  
in the form of the demon Raktabija, whose drops of blood were seeds of  
hundreds and thousands of demons like himself coming up. When the Devi severed  
the head of one Rakshasa, the blood fell on the ground profusely and from that  
blood, millions cropped up. And when She killed them, again another million  
cropped up. So there was no end for it. If you cut off one or two desires, the  
desire is not over. The root is still there. The branches are only severed.  
Unless the root is dug out, there is no use of merely severing the branches of  
the tree. So what did the Devi do? She asked Kali to spread her tongue  
throughout the earth, so that there is no ground at all for the Rakshasas to  
walk over. They had to walk over the tongue of Kali. So huge it was. And now  
the Goddess started cutting their heads and when the blood fell, it fell not  
on the ground but on the tongue of Kali. So she sucked everything. Chariots  
and horses and demons and everybody entered her mouth. She chewed all chariots  
into powder. So likewise, we have to adopt a technique of sucking the very  
root of desires and not merely chop off its branches. Otherwise, desires will  
take various forms like Mahishasura. When we think that Mahishasura has been  
killed, he comes as a buffalo and when the buffalo is attacked, he again comes  
as an elephant, and if Devi attacks the elephant, he comes as a bull and  
attacks Her. So, there is no way of overcoming these desires by merely dealing  
with them from outside by a frontal attack. Their very essence has to be  
sucked. Because, a desire is not an outward form or an action, it is a  
tendency within. You may do nothing, and yet you will have desires. Because,  
desire is not necessarily an activity. A desireful person need not be very  
active. He can be sitting quiet, doing nothing, saying nothing, and yet be  
full of desires. Because, it is a tendency of the mind, an inclination of  
consciousness, that we call a desire. That can be inside, even if there is  
outwardly nothing. This is the Vikshepa Sakti,--distraction, tossing and the  
chameleon-attitude of desire,--which attacks us, when, with Herculean efforts,  
we try to destroy or gain control over Kama and Krodha, Madhu and Kaitabha.  
After Madhu and Kaitabha, we get Mahishasura and Raktabija. Thus Mala and  
Vikshepa are the primary oppositions in our spiritual pursuit.   
Ancient masters have told us that while Mala or dirt of the psychological  
structure can be removed by Karma Yoga, by unselfish and dedicated service,  
Vikshepa or distraction of the mind can be removed only by worship of God, by  
Upasana. While Karma removes Mala, Upasana removes Vikshepa. But even now, we  
are not fully safe. While Mala might have gone and Vikshepa is not there, we  
may have a third trouble, namely, a complete oblivion of consciousness. We  
will have no knowledge of anything as to what is happening. Ajnana or  
Ignorance is a subtler opposing power than its effects in the form of Mala and  
Vikshepa. Distraction and direct sensual desires are the outer expressions of  
a subtle ignorance of Truth, Avidya or Ajnana. Why do we desire things?  
Because, we do not know the nature of Truth. Why does a strong wind blow?  
Because, the sun is covered over with clouds. The sun is covered by the clouds  
first, then there is darkness and then a gale, cyclone starts blowing from the  
north, breaking your umbrellas and uprooting trees. All these happen because  
the sun does not shine. Even so, when the Atman is covered over by ignorance  
of its nature, the winds of desire begin to blow, and they come like violent  
storms. Impetuous is the force of desire. You cannot stand against it, because  
the whole of Nature gets concentrated in a desire. That is why it is impetuous  
and uncontrollable. All the powers of Nature get focussed in a desire when it  
manifests itself, whatever be that desire. So the whole of Nature has to be  
subdued. You are not to subdue only your individual nature, but the cosmic  
Nature itself is to be subdued. This is what is depicted in the Epic of the  
Devi-Mahatmya. It is the subdual, overcoming, transformation of the cosmic  
Nature in the form of Tamas, Rajas and Sattva. While Mala represents Tamas,  
Vikshepa represents Rajas.   
Now, Sattva is also a Guna, unfortunately. We always praise Sattva and regard  
it as a very desirable thing. But it is like a transparent glass that is  
placed between us and the Truth. You can see through it, but you cannot go  
beyond it. Because, though the glass is transparent, it can obstruct your  
movement. It is not like a brick-wall, completely preventing your vision, as  
Tamas does; it is not like a blowing wind which simply tosses you here and  
there, as Rajas does; it is a plain glass, through which you can have vision  
of Reality, but you cannot contact Reality nevertheless. How can you contact a  
thing when there is a glass between you and the thing? Yet you can see it. So  
they say even Sattva is an obstacle, though it is better than the other two  
forces, in the sense that through it you can have a vision or an insight into  
the nature of Reality which transcends even Sattva. There is a glass pane and  
you can see a mango fruit on the other side of it. You can see it very well,  
but cannot get it, you cannot grab it. You know the reason. Even Sattva is a  
subtle medium of obstruction, which acts in a double form; as complacency or  
satisfaction with what has been achieved, and an ignorance of what is beyond.  
These two aspects of Sattva are indicated by the two personalities of Sumbha  
and Nisumbha. They have to be dispelled by the power of higher wisdom, which  
is Maha-Sarasvati.   
Action, contemplation and knowledge are the three stages through which we have  
to pierce through the veil of Prakriti or three Gunas. And as I mentioned  
earlier, we are not individual pedestrians on the path. There is no individual  
movement here. It is all a total movement of everything connected with us and  
no item in the world is really disconnected from us. Every thread in a cloth  
is connected with every other thread. When you lift one thread of a cloth, the  
whole cloth comes up, because of the interconnection of the warp and the woof  
of the cloth. Likewise, there is an internal interconnection of beings, which  
prevents any kind of individual effort for the sake of salvation. That is why  
salvation is universal, it is not individual. When you attain to the Supreme  
Being, you become the Universal Being. You do not go as a Mr. So and So or as  
a Mrs. So and So, there. So the path of Sadhana also is a cosmic effort of the  
soul, a subtle secret which most Sadhakas are likely to forget. It is not a  
small, simple, private effort of yours in the closet of your room, but a  
dynamic activity of your essential personality, internally connected by  
unforeseen relationships with everything in the cosmos. When you enter the  
path of the spirit, you have also at the same time entered the path of cosmic  
relationship. A Sadhaka is, therefore, a cosmic person. A spiritual seeker, an  
aspirant is a representative of cosmic situation. He is not an individual,  
though he looks like a person, and his Sadhana is not an individual effort. It  
is much more than what it appears to be on the surface. It is, as it were, the  
conversation between Nara and Narayana, Krishna-Arjuna-Samvada, as they call  
it. You and your God are face to face with each other. In Sadhana, in  
spiritual effort, you are face to face with your Maker. And the face of the  
Maker is universal. He is not in one spot, hiding himself in one corner.   
So, the dance of the cosmic spirit, in its supernal effort at self-  
transcendence, is majestically described in the beautifully worded sonorous  
songs of the Devi-Mahatmya, where we are given a stirring account, a  
stimulating description of what Maha-Kali did, what Maha-Lakshmi did and Maha-  
Sarasvati did in bringing about this evolution, transformation of the whole  
range of Prakriti from Tamas to Rajas, from Rajas to Sattva and from Sattva to  
Supreme Vijaya, mastery in the Absolute, God-realisation.   
So, through the worship of Maha-Kali, Maha-Lakshmi, and Maha-Sarasvati, we  
worship Mula-Prakriti, Adi-Sakti in her cosmic dance-form of transformation,  
prosperity and Illumination. In the beginning, what happens to a Sadhaka?  
There is a necessity of self-transformation. It is all hardship, rubbing and  
cleaning, washing, sweeping, etc. That is the first stage through the worship  
of Maha-Kali, who brings about a destruction of all barriers. Then what  
happens? There is tremendous prosperity. You become a master and a progressive  
soul commanding all powers, getting everything that you want. This is the  
second stage. In the first stage, it looked as if you were a poor person,  
having nothing, very weak. But, when you overcome this weakness, by removing  
the barrier of Tamas, you become prosperous. Nobody can be as rich as a Yogi,  
you know. He can command all the powers. By a thought he can invoke all  
things, and this is Goddess Maha-Lakshmi working. When Maha-Kali has finished  
her work of destruction of opposition, Maha-Lakshmi comes as prosperity. A  
great Yogi is also like a royal personality, because of his internal  
invocations, though unconsciously done, of cosmic powers. When prosperity  
dawns, it looks as if the whole universe is a heaven. In the first stage, it  
looked like a hell. Afterwards, in the second stage, it looks like a heaven,  
when Maha-Lakshmi begins to work. But this also is not sufficient. Knowledge  
should dawn. It is not heaven that you are asking for. You want the  
realisation of Truth. Sarasvati will come for help and a flood of light on  
Truth will be thrown and you will see things as they are. There is no  
enjoyment, prosperity, richness, wealth or any such thing. It is Truth  
unconnected with yourself in the beginning, but later on inseparable from  
yourself. Thus, from opposition to prosperity, from prosperity to  
enlightenment, and from enlightenment to Self-realisation do we proceed. So,  
these are the truths esoterically conveyed to us in the Mantras of the Devi-  
Mahatmya.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160418011550/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=0deacc5c04fcb36f78f852ffd9878b70&topic=5393.msg14917](http://web.archive.org/web/20160418011550/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=0deacc5c04fcb36f78f852ffd9878b70&topic=5393.msg14917)   
---  

--- 
title: Devi   
tags: silentgreen  
---  
## Devi  
Author: silentgreen         Date: May 21, 2010, 03:27:22 PM  
---  
**Swami Vivekananda 's experience at Kshir Bhavani**   
It is two or three days since Swamiji has returned from Kashmir. His health is  
indifferent. When the disciple came to the Math, Swami Brahmananda said,  
"Since returning from Kashmir, Swamiji does not speak to anybody, he sits in  
one place rapt in thought; you go to him and by conversation try to draw his  
mind a little towards worldly objects."   
The disciple coming to Swamiji's room in the upper storey found him sitting as  
if immersed in deep mediation. There was no smile on his face, his brilliant  
eyes had no outward look, as if intent on seeing something within. Seeing the  
disciple, he only said, "You have come, my son? Please take your seat", and  
lapsed into silence. The disciple seeing the inside of his left eye reddened  
asked, "How is it that your eye is red?" "That is nothing", said Swamiji and  
was again silent. When even after a long time Swamiji did not speak, the  
disciple was a little troubled at heart and touching his feet said, "Won't you  
relate to me what things you have seen at Amarnath?" By the disciple's  
touching his feet, the tensity of his mood was broken a little, as if his  
attention was diverted a little outwards. He said, "Since visiting Amarnath, I  
feel as if Shiva is sitting on my head for twenty - four hours and would not  
come down." The disciple heard it with speechless wonder.   
Swamiji: I underwent great religious austerities at Amarnath and then in the  
temple of Kshir Bhavani. Go and prepare me some tobacco, I will relate  
everything to you.   
The disciple joyfully obeyed the order. Swamiji slowly smoking began to say,  
"On the way to Amarnath, I made a very steep ascent on the mountain. Pilgrims  
do not generally travel by that path. But the determination came upon me that  
I must go by that path, and so I did. The labour of the strenuous ascent has  
told on my body. The cold there is so biting that you feel it like pin -  
pricks."   
Disciple: I have heard that it is the custom to visit the image of Amarnath  
naked; is it so?   
Swamiji: Yes, I entered the cave with only my Kaupina on and my body smeared  
with holy ash; I did not then feel any cold or heat. But when I came out of  
the temple, I was benumbed by the cold.   
Disciple: Did you see the holy pigeons? I have heard, in that cold no living  
creatures are found to live, but a flight of pigeons from some unknown place  
frequents the place occasionally.   
Swamiji: Yes, I saw three or four white pigeons; whether they live in the cave  
or the neighboring hills, I could not ascertain.   
Disciple: Sir, I have heard people say that the sight of pigeons on coming out  
of the temple indicates that one has really been blessed with the vision of  
Shiva.   
Swamiji: I have heard that the sight of the pigeons brings to fruition  
whatever desires one may have.   
Then Swamiji said that on the way back he returned to Srinagar by the common  
route by which the pilgrims return. A few days after returning to Srinagar, he  
went to visit Kshir Bhavani Devi and staying there for seven days worshipped  
the Devi and made Homa to her with offerings of Kshira (condensed milk). Every  
day he used to worship the Devi with a maund of Kshira as offering. One day,  
while worshipping, the thought arose in Swamiji's mind: "Mother Bhavani has  
been manifesting Her Presence here for untold years. The Mohammedans came and  
destroyed her temple, yet the people of the place did nothing to protect Her.  
Alas, if I were then living I could never have borne it silently." When,  
thinking in this strain, his mind was much oppressed with sorrow and anguish,  
he distinctly heard the voice of the Mother saying, "It was according to My  
desire that the Mohammedans destroyed this temple. It is My desire that I  
should live in a dilapidated temple, otherwise, can I not immediately erect a  
seven - storeyed temple of gold here if I like? What can you do? Shall I  
protect you or shall you protect me!" Swamiji said, "Since hearing that divine  
voice, I cherish no more plans. The idea of building Maths etc. I have given  
up; as Mother wills, so it will be." The disciple, speechless with wonder,  
began to think, "Did he not one day tell me that whatever I saw and heard was  
but the echo of the Atman within me, that there was nothing outside?"\-- and  
fearlessly spoke it out also --"Sir, you used to say that Divine Voices are  
the echo of our inward thoughts and feelings." Swamiji gravely said, "Whether  
it be internal or external, if you actually hear with your ears such a  
disembodied voice, as I have done, can you deny it and call it false? Divine  
Voices are actually heard, just as you and I are talking."   
The disciple, without controverting accepted Swamiji's words, for his words  
always carried conviction.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160418071609/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=0deacc5c04fcb36f78f852ffd9878b70&topic=5393.msg14919](http://web.archive.org/web/20160418071609/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=0deacc5c04fcb36f78f852ffd9878b70&topic=5393.msg14919)   
---  

## Re:[1] Devi  
Author: silentgreen         Date: May 21, 2010, 03:38:43 PM  
---  
**Condensed from the "The Esoteric Significance of Devi Mahatmyam" by Swami  
Krishnananda of Divine Life Society**   
The Devi-Mahatmya which is a majestic poetry in Sanskrit, describes to us the  
Epic of the march of the human soul to its destination, the realisation of  
this freedom, is the dramatic aspect of the great worship of the Divine Mother  
during these nine days of Navaratri or Dassehra as you call it. The march of  
the soul is dramatic. It is not a lagging or a crawling but a beautiful,  
sonorous, musical advent, you may call it. This is the beauty of the Devi-  
Mahatmya. All Epics have this particular character of grandeur, uplifting the  
emotions, and chastening the intellect of the devotee who goes through them.   
The Devi-Mahatmya is a part of the Markandeya Purana, containing thirteen  
chapters which are grouped into three sections, known as the Prathama  
Charitra, Madhyama Charitra and the Uttama Charitra.   
The march of the soul is graduated into three major steps, though there are  
many minor steps involved in these three major ones. While we have to rise  
through various rungs of the ladder of evolution, we come to three points or  
halting places, we may call them, where there is a complete transformation of  
outlook, attitude and constitution of our being. These threefold  
transformations of the spiritual being of the aspiring soul are dominated or  
presided over by three deities known as Maha-Kali, Maha-Lakshmi and Maha-  
Sarasvati.   
There are three stages of transformation described in the three sections of  
the Devi-Mahatmya. The first one is where Adi-Sakti awakes Maha-Vishnu who was  
asleep, so that He may destroy or overcome the original demoniacal forces,  
Madhu and Kaitabha. The second stage is where the same Sakti manifests Herself  
as Maha-Lakshmi and overcomes Mahishasura and Raktabija. The third one is  
where Sumbha and Nisumbha are destroyed by Maha-Sarasvati. And the nine days  
of worship comprehend these three stages adored in three days of worship,  
each. The final victory is called Vijaya-Dasami, the tenth day, as you know.  
That is the day of Victory, where you master the forces of Nature completely  
and your goal is reached.   
The lower powers of Nature are like dirt. We call them Mala, 'Vishnukarna-  
Malodbhuto Hantum Brahmanamudyato', says the Devi-Mahatmya. The Madhu and  
Kaitabha, two Rakshasas (demons) are supposed to have come out of the dirt of  
the ear of Vishnu. The lowest category of opposition is of the nature of dirt,  
Mala; and psychologically, from the point of view of the seeking soul, this  
dirt is in the form of Kama, Krodha and Lobha. 'Kama Esha Krodha Esha Rajo-  
guna Samudbhavah,' 'Kamah Krodhastatha Lobhah Tasmat Etat Trayam Tyajet'\--It  
is desire and anger born of Rajas; desire, anger and greed, these three  
therefore should be abandoned,--says the Bhagavadgita. These three are the  
gates to hell. These three are regarded as dirt, because they cover the  
consciousness in such a way that it appears to be not there at all. It is like  
painting a thin glass with coal-tar. You cannot see the glass. It is all  
pitch-dark like clouds. This has to be rubbed off with great effort.   
When this Mala or dirt is removed, we get into another trouble. Do not think  
that when you are tentatively a master of Kama, Krodha and Lobha, you are a  
real master of yourself. "There are more things in heaven and earth than your  
philosophy dreams of, O Horatio," said Hamlet. So do not think that your  
philosophy is exhaustive. There are many more things that philosophy cannot  
comprehend. Kama, Krodha and Lobha are not the only enemies. There are subtler  
ones, more formidable than these visible foes. As a matter of fact, the subtle  
invisible enemies are more difficult to overcome than the visible ones.  
Sometimes you know, an angry man is better than a smiling person. Smiling  
person is more dangerous than the angry one, because he can have a knife under  
his arm-pit. This is what we will face. When we manage somehow to overcome  
this Madhu and Kaitabha, Kama and Krodha, we get into the clutches of  
Mahishasura and Raktabija. They represent the Vikhepa Sakti, the tossing of  
the mind. Every minute the mind changes its forms which multiply in millions.  
You read in the Devi-Mahatmya, how Mahishasura changed his form. Now he is an  
elephant, now he is a buffalo, now he is something else. If you hit him in one  
form, he comes in another form. And this is your inexhaustible opponent. His  
energies are incapable of being exhausted. However much you may try to oppose  
the Vikshepa Sakti, it will manifest in some form or other. This is described  
in the form of the demon Raktabija, whose drops of blood were seeds of  
hundreds and thousands of demons like himself coming up. When the Devi severed  
the head of one Rakshasa, the blood fell on the ground profusely and from that  
blood, millions cropped up. And when She killed them, again another million  
cropped up. So there was no end for it. If you cut off one or two desires, the  
desire is not over. The root is still there. The branches are only severed.  
Unless the root is dug out, there is no use of merely severing the branches of  
the tree. So what did the Devi do? She asked Kali to spread her tongue  
throughout the earth, so that there is no ground at all for the Rakshasas to  
walk over. They had to walk over the tongue of Kali. So huge it was. And now  
the Goddess started cutting their heads and when the blood fell, it fell not  
on the ground but on the tongue of Kali. So she sucked everything. Chariots  
and horses and demons and everybody entered her mouth. She chewed all chariots  
into powder. So likewise, we have to adopt a technique of sucking the very  
root of desires and not merely chop off its branches. Otherwise, desires will  
take various forms like Mahishasura. When we think that Mahishasura has been  
killed, he comes as a buffalo and when the buffalo is attacked, he again comes  
as an elephant, and if Devi attacks the elephant, he comes as a bull and  
attacks Her. So, there is no way of overcoming these desires by merely dealing  
with them from outside by a frontal attack. Their very essence has to be  
sucked. Because, a desire is not an outward form or an action, it is a  
tendency within. You may do nothing, and yet you will have desires. Because,  
desire is not necessarily an activity. A desireful person need not be very  
active. He can be sitting quiet, doing nothing, saying nothing, and yet be  
full of desires. Because, it is a tendency of the mind, an inclination of  
consciousness, that we call a desire. That can be inside, even if there is  
outwardly nothing. This is the Vikshepa Sakti,--distraction, tossing and the  
chameleon-attitude of desire,--which attacks us, when, with Herculean efforts,  
we try to destroy or gain control over Kama and Krodha, Madhu and Kaitabha.  
After Madhu and Kaitabha, we get Mahishasura and Raktabija. Thus Mala and  
Vikshepa are the primary oppositions in our spiritual pursuit.   
Ancient masters have told us that while Mala or dirt of the psychological  
structure can be removed by Karma Yoga, by unselfish and dedicated service,  
Vikshepa or distraction of the mind can be removed only by worship of God, by  
Upasana. While Karma removes Mala, Upasana removes Vikshepa. But even now, we  
are not fully safe. While Mala might have gone and Vikshepa is not there, we  
may have a third trouble, namely, a complete oblivion of consciousness. We  
will have no knowledge of anything as to what is happening. Ajnana or  
Ignorance is a subtler opposing power than its effects in the form of Mala and  
Vikshepa. Distraction and direct sensual desires are the outer expressions of  
a subtle ignorance of Truth, Avidya or Ajnana. Why do we desire things?  
Because, we do not know the nature of Truth. Why does a strong wind blow?  
Because, the sun is covered over with clouds. The sun is covered by the clouds  
first, then there is darkness and then a gale, cyclone starts blowing from the  
north, breaking your umbrellas and uprooting trees. All these happen because  
the sun does not shine. Even so, when the Atman is covered over by ignorance  
of its nature, the winds of desire begin to blow, and they come like violent  
storms. Impetuous is the force of desire. You cannot stand against it, because  
the whole of Nature gets concentrated in a desire. That is why it is impetuous  
and uncontrollable. All the powers of Nature get focussed in a desire when it  
manifests itself, whatever be that desire. So the whole of Nature has to be  
subdued. You are not to subdue only your individual nature, but the cosmic  
Nature itself is to be subdued. This is what is depicted in the Epic of the  
Devi-Mahatmya. It is the subdual, overcoming, transformation of the cosmic  
Nature in the form of Tamas, Rajas and Sattva. While Mala represents Tamas,  
Vikshepa represents Rajas.   
Now, Sattva is also a Guna, unfortunately. We always praise Sattva and regard  
it as a very desirable thing. But it is like a transparent glass that is  
placed between us and the Truth. You can see through it, but you cannot go  
beyond it. Because, though the glass is transparent, it can obstruct your  
movement. It is not like a brick-wall, completely preventing your vision, as  
Tamas does; it is not like a blowing wind which simply tosses you here and  
there, as Rajas does; it is a plain glass, through which you can have vision  
of Reality, but you cannot contact Reality nevertheless. How can you contact a  
thing when there is a glass between you and the thing? Yet you can see it. So  
they say even Sattva is an obstacle, though it is better than the other two  
forces, in the sense that through it you can have a vision or an insight into  
the nature of Reality which transcends even Sattva. There is a glass pane and  
you can see a mango fruit on the other side of it. You can see it very well,  
but cannot get it, you cannot grab it. You know the reason. Even Sattva is a  
subtle medium of obstruction, which acts in a double form; as complacency or  
satisfaction with what has been achieved, and an ignorance of what is beyond.  
These two aspects of Sattva are indicated by the two personalities of Sumbha  
and Nisumbha. They have to be dispelled by the power of higher wisdom, which  
is Maha-Sarasvati.   
Action, contemplation and knowledge are the three stages through which we have  
to pierce through the veil of Prakriti or three Gunas. And as I mentioned  
earlier, we are not individual pedestrians on the path. There is no individual  
movement here. It is all a total movement of everything connected with us and  
no item in the world is really disconnected from us. Every thread in a cloth  
is connected with every other thread. When you lift one thread of a cloth, the  
whole cloth comes up, because of the interconnection of the warp and the woof  
of the cloth. Likewise, there is an internal interconnection of beings, which  
prevents any kind of individual effort for the sake of salvation. That is why  
salvation is universal, it is not individual. When you attain to the Supreme  
Being, you become the Universal Being. You do not go as a Mr. So and So or as  
a Mrs. So and So, there. So the path of Sadhana also is a cosmic effort of the  
soul, a subtle secret which most Sadhakas are likely to forget. It is not a  
small, simple, private effort of yours in the closet of your room, but a  
dynamic activity of your essential personality, internally connected by  
unforeseen relationships with everything in the cosmos. When you enter the  
path of the spirit, you have also at the same time entered the path of cosmic  
relationship. A Sadhaka is, therefore, a cosmic person. A spiritual seeker, an  
aspirant is a representative of cosmic situation. He is not an individual,  
though he looks like a person, and his Sadhana is not an individual effort. It  
is much more than what it appears to be on the surface. It is, as it were, the  
conversation between Nara and Narayana, Krishna-Arjuna-Samvada, as they call  
it. You and your God are face to face with each other. In Sadhana, in  
spiritual effort, you are face to face with your Maker. And the face of the  
Maker is universal. He is not in one spot, hiding himself in one corner.   
So, the dance of the cosmic spirit, in its supernal effort at self-  
transcendence, is majestically described in the beautifully worded sonorous  
songs of the Devi-Mahatmya, where we are given a stirring account, a  
stimulating description of what Maha-Kali did, what Maha-Lakshmi did and Maha-  
Sarasvati did in bringing about this evolution, transformation of the whole  
range of Prakriti from Tamas to Rajas, from Rajas to Sattva and from Sattva to  
Supreme Vijaya, mastery in the Absolute, God-realisation.   
So, through the worship of Maha-Kali, Maha-Lakshmi, and Maha-Sarasvati, we  
worship Mula-Prakriti, Adi-Sakti in her cosmic dance-form of transformation,  
prosperity and Illumination. In the beginning, what happens to a Sadhaka?  
There is a necessity of self-transformation. It is all hardship, rubbing and  
cleaning, washing, sweeping, etc. That is the first stage through the worship  
of Maha-Kali, who brings about a destruction of all barriers. Then what  
happens? There is tremendous prosperity. You become a master and a progressive  
soul commanding all powers, getting everything that you want. This is the  
second stage. In the first stage, it looked as if you were a poor person,  
having nothing, very weak. But, when you overcome this weakness, by removing  
the barrier of Tamas, you become prosperous. Nobody can be as rich as a Yogi,  
you know. He can command all the powers. By a thought he can invoke all  
things, and this is Goddess Maha-Lakshmi working. When Maha-Kali has finished  
her work of destruction of opposition, Maha-Lakshmi comes as prosperity. A  
great Yogi is also like a royal personality, because of his internal  
invocations, though unconsciously done, of cosmic powers. When prosperity  
dawns, it looks as if the whole universe is a heaven. In the first stage, it  
looked like a hell. Afterwards, in the second stage, it looks like a heaven,  
when Maha-Lakshmi begins to work. But this also is not sufficient. Knowledge  
should dawn. It is not heaven that you are asking for. You want the  
realisation of Truth. Sarasvati will come for help and a flood of light on  
Truth will be thrown and you will see things as they are. There is no  
enjoyment, prosperity, richness, wealth or any such thing. It is Truth  
unconnected with yourself in the beginning, but later on inseparable from  
yourself. Thus, from opposition to prosperity, from prosperity to  
enlightenment, and from enlightenment to Self-realisation do we proceed. So,  
these are the truths esoterically conveyed to us in the Mantras of the Devi-  
Mahatmya.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160418071609/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=0deacc5c04fcb36f78f852ffd9878b70&topic=5393.msg14919](http://web.archive.org/web/20160418071609/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=0deacc5c04fcb36f78f852ffd9878b70&topic=5393.msg14919)   
---  

--- 
title: Devi   
tags: silentgreen ramana_maharshi  
---  
## Swami Sivananda  
Author: ramana_maharshi     Date: May 27, 2010, 01:38:20 PM  
---  
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swami_Sivananda   
http://www.sivananda.org/teachings/teachers/sivananda/sivananda.html   
http://www.dlshq.org/download/download.htm   
Swami Sivananda Saraswati (September 8, 1887—July 14, 1963) was a Hindu  
spiritual teacher and a well known proponent of Sivananda Yoga and Vedanta.   
Sivananda was born Kuppuswami in Pattamadai, **in the Tirunelveli district of  
Tamil Nadu.**   
He studied medicine and served in Malaya as a physician for several years  
before taking up monasticism. He lived most of the later part of his life near  
Muni Ki Reti, Rishikesh.   
He is the founder of The Divine Life Society (1936), Yoga-Vedanta Forest  
Academy (1948) and author of over 200 books on yoga, vedanta and a variety of  
other subjects. He established Sivananda Ashram, the location of the  
headquarters of The Divine Life Society (DLS), on the bank of the Ganges at  
Shivanandanagar, at a distance of 3 kilometres from Rishikesh.   
Sivananda Yoga, the yoga form propagated by him, are now spread in many parts  
of the world through Sivananda Yoga Vedanta Centres, but these centres are not  
affiliated with Swami Sivananda's original ashrams which are run by the Divine  
Life Society.   
After a few years, Sivananda went on an extensive pilgrimage and traveled the  
length and breadth of India to meditate at holy shrines and study with  
spiritual teachers throughout India. During this Parivrajaka (wandering monk)  
life, Sivananda visited important places of pilgrimage in the south, including  
Rameshvaram. He conducted Sankirtan and delivered lectures during his travels.  
He visited the Sri Aurobindo Ashram and met Maharishi Suddhananda Bharati.   
**At the Ramana ashram, he had the Darshan of Ramana Maharshi on Maharshi 's  
birthday.He sang bhajans and danced in ecstasy with Maharshi's bhaktas.  
He also went on pilgrimages to various places in northern India including  
Kedarnath and Badrinath. He visited Kailash-Manasarovar in 1931.   
Swami Sivananda's two foremost disciples were Swami Chidananda and Swami  
Krishnananda. Swami Chidananda was appointed President of the Divine Life  
Society by Swami Sivananda in 1963 and served in this capacity until his death  
in 2008.   
Swami Krishnananda was appointed General Secretary of the Divine Life Society  
by Swami Sivananda in 1958 and served in this capacity until his death in  
2001. Swami Krishnananda is widely regarded as one of the most influential  
theologians and philosophers of the 20th century.   
A prolific author, Swami Sivananda wrote exactly 296 books on a variety of  
subjects: metaphysics, Yoga, religion, western philosophy, psychology,  
eschatology, fine arts, ethics, education, health, sayings, poems, epistles,  
autobiography, biography, stories, dramas, messages, lectures, dialogues,  
essays and anthology.Yet his books emphasized the practical application of  
yoga philosophy over mere theoretical knowledge.   
**He was known to have said "An ounce of practice is better than tons of  
theory. Practice Yoga, Religion and Philosophy in daily life and attain Self-  
realization."**   
Swami Sivananda died on 14 July 1963 in his Kutir on the bank of Ganges, in  
Shivanandanagar.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20190616111941/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=2b96613f4ace36b26fe45da04a54761f&topic=5393.0;prev_next=prev](http://web.archive.org/web/20190616111941/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=2b96613f4ace36b26fe45da04a54761f&topic=5393.0;prev_next=prev)   
---  

## Devi  
Author: silentgreen         Date: May 21, 2010, 03:27:22 PM  
---  
**Swami Vivekananda 's experience at Kshir Bhavani**   
It is two or three days since Swamiji has returned from Kashmir. His health is  
indifferent. When the disciple came to the Math, Swami Brahmananda said,  
"Since returning from Kashmir, Swamiji does not speak to anybody, he sits in  
one place rapt in thought; you go to him and by conversation try to draw his  
mind a little towards worldly objects."   
The disciple coming to Swamiji's room in the upper storey found him sitting as  
if immersed in deep mediation. There was no smile on his face, his brilliant  
eyes had no outward look, as if intent on seeing something within. Seeing the  
disciple, he only said, "You have come, my son? Please take your seat", and  
lapsed into silence. The disciple seeing the inside of his left eye reddened  
asked, "How is it that your eye is red?" "That is nothing", said Swamiji and  
was again silent. When even after a long time Swamiji did not speak, the  
disciple was a little troubled at heart and touching his feet said, "Won't you  
relate to me what things you have seen at Amarnath?" By the disciple's  
touching his feet, the tensity of his mood was broken a little, as if his  
attention was diverted a little outwards. He said, "Since visiting Amarnath, I  
feel as if Shiva is sitting on my head for twenty - four hours and would not  
come down." The disciple heard it with speechless wonder.   
Swamiji: I underwent great religious austerities at Amarnath and then in the  
temple of Kshir Bhavani. Go and prepare me some tobacco, I will relate  
everything to you.   
The disciple joyfully obeyed the order. Swamiji slowly smoking began to say,  
"On the way to Amarnath, I made a very steep ascent on the mountain. Pilgrims  
do not generally travel by that path. But the determination came upon me that  
I must go by that path, and so I did. The labour of the strenuous ascent has  
told on my body. The cold there is so biting that you feel it like pin -  
pricks."   
Disciple: I have heard that it is the custom to visit the image of Amarnath  
naked; is it so?   
Swamiji: Yes, I entered the cave with only my Kaupina on and my body smeared  
with holy ash; I did not then feel any cold or heat. But when I came out of  
the temple, I was benumbed by the cold.   
Disciple: Did you see the holy pigeons? I have heard, in that cold no living  
creatures are found to live, but a flight of pigeons from some unknown place  
frequents the place occasionally.   
Swamiji: Yes, I saw three or four white pigeons; whether they live in the cave  
or the neighboring hills, I could not ascertain.   
Disciple: Sir, I have heard people say that the sight of pigeons on coming out  
of the temple indicates that one has really been blessed with the vision of  
Shiva.   
Swamiji: I have heard that the sight of the pigeons brings to fruition  
whatever desires one may have.   
Then Swamiji said that on the way back he returned to Srinagar by the common  
route by which the pilgrims return. A few days after returning to Srinagar, he  
went to visit Kshir Bhavani Devi and staying there for seven days worshipped  
the Devi and made Homa to her with offerings of Kshira (condensed milk). Every  
day he used to worship the Devi with a maund of Kshira as offering. One day,  
while worshipping, the thought arose in Swamiji's mind: "Mother Bhavani has  
been manifesting Her Presence here for untold years. The Mohammedans came and  
destroyed her temple, yet the people of the place did nothing to protect Her.  
Alas, if I were then living I could never have borne it silently." When,  
thinking in this strain, his mind was much oppressed with sorrow and anguish,  
he distinctly heard the voice of the Mother saying, "It was according to My  
desire that the Mohammedans destroyed this temple. It is My desire that I  
should live in a dilapidated temple, otherwise, can I not immediately erect a  
seven - storeyed temple of gold here if I like? What can you do? Shall I  
protect you or shall you protect me!" Swamiji said, "Since hearing that divine  
voice, I cherish no more plans. The idea of building Maths etc. I have given  
up; as Mother wills, so it will be." The disciple, speechless with wonder,  
began to think, "Did he not one day tell me that whatever I saw and heard was  
but the echo of the Atman within me, that there was nothing outside?"\-- and  
fearlessly spoke it out also --"Sir, you used to say that Divine Voices are  
the echo of our inward thoughts and feelings." Swamiji gravely said, "Whether  
it be internal or external, if you actually hear with your ears such a  
disembodied voice, as I have done, can you deny it and call it false? Divine  
Voices are actually heard, just as you and I are talking."   
The disciple, without controverting accepted Swamiji's words, for his words  
always carried conviction.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160404173211/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=16d2c6209f29fd30d574b577d27410ea;topic=5393.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160404173211/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=16d2c6209f29fd30d574b577d27410ea;topic=5393.0)   
---  

## Re:[1] Devi  
Author: silentgreen         Date: May 21, 2010, 03:38:43 PM  
---  
**Condensed from the "The Esoteric Significance of Devi Mahatmyam" by Swami  
Krishnananda of Divine Life Society**   
The Devi-Mahatmya which is a majestic poetry in Sanskrit, describes to us the  
Epic of the march of the human soul to its destination, the realisation of  
this freedom, is the dramatic aspect of the great worship of the Divine Mother  
during these nine days of Navaratri or Dassehra as you call it. The march of  
the soul is dramatic. It is not a lagging or a crawling but a beautiful,  
sonorous, musical advent, you may call it. This is the beauty of the Devi-  
Mahatmya. All Epics have this particular character of grandeur, uplifting the  
emotions, and chastening the intellect of the devotee who goes through them.   
The Devi-Mahatmya is a part of the Markandeya Purana, containing thirteen  
chapters which are grouped into three sections, known as the Prathama  
Charitra, Madhyama Charitra and the Uttama Charitra.   
The march of the soul is graduated into three major steps, though there are  
many minor steps involved in these three major ones. While we have to rise  
through various rungs of the ladder of evolution, we come to three points or  
halting places, we may call them, where there is a complete transformation of  
outlook, attitude and constitution of our being. These threefold  
transformations of the spiritual being of the aspiring soul are dominated or  
presided over by three deities known as Maha-Kali, Maha-Lakshmi and Maha-  
Sarasvati.   
There are three stages of transformation described in the three sections of  
the Devi-Mahatmya. The first one is where Adi-Sakti awakes Maha-Vishnu who was  
asleep, so that He may destroy or overcome the original demoniacal forces,  
Madhu and Kaitabha. The second stage is where the same Sakti manifests Herself  
as Maha-Lakshmi and overcomes Mahishasura and Raktabija. The third one is  
where Sumbha and Nisumbha are destroyed by Maha-Sarasvati. And the nine days  
of worship comprehend these three stages adored in three days of worship,  
each. The final victory is called Vijaya-Dasami, the tenth day, as you know.  
That is the day of Victory, where you master the forces of Nature completely  
and your goal is reached.   
The lower powers of Nature are like dirt. We call them Mala, 'Vishnukarna-  
Malodbhuto Hantum Brahmanamudyato', says the Devi-Mahatmya. The Madhu and  
Kaitabha, two Rakshasas (demons) are supposed to have come out of the dirt of  
the ear of Vishnu. The lowest category of opposition is of the nature of dirt,  
Mala; and psychologically, from the point of view of the seeking soul, this  
dirt is in the form of Kama, Krodha and Lobha. 'Kama Esha Krodha Esha Rajo-  
guna Samudbhavah,' 'Kamah Krodhastatha Lobhah Tasmat Etat Trayam Tyajet'\--It  
is desire and anger born of Rajas; desire, anger and greed, these three  
therefore should be abandoned,--says the Bhagavadgita. These three are the  
gates to hell. These three are regarded as dirt, because they cover the  
consciousness in such a way that it appears to be not there at all. It is like  
painting a thin glass with coal-tar. You cannot see the glass. It is all  
pitch-dark like clouds. This has to be rubbed off with great effort.   
When this Mala or dirt is removed, we get into another trouble. Do not think  
that when you are tentatively a master of Kama, Krodha and Lobha, you are a  
real master of yourself. "There are more things in heaven and earth than your  
philosophy dreams of, O Horatio," said Hamlet. So do not think that your  
philosophy is exhaustive. There are many more things that philosophy cannot  
comprehend. Kama, Krodha and Lobha are not the only enemies. There are subtler  
ones, more formidable than these visible foes. As a matter of fact, the subtle  
invisible enemies are more difficult to overcome than the visible ones.  
Sometimes you know, an angry man is better than a smiling person. Smiling  
person is more dangerous than the angry one, because he can have a knife under  
his arm-pit. This is what we will face. When we manage somehow to overcome  
this Madhu and Kaitabha, Kama and Krodha, we get into the clutches of  
Mahishasura and Raktabija. They represent the Vikhepa Sakti, the tossing of  
the mind. Every minute the mind changes its forms which multiply in millions.  
You read in the Devi-Mahatmya, how Mahishasura changed his form. Now he is an  
elephant, now he is a buffalo, now he is something else. If you hit him in one  
form, he comes in another form. And this is your inexhaustible opponent. His  
energies are incapable of being exhausted. However much you may try to oppose  
the Vikshepa Sakti, it will manifest in some form or other. This is described  
in the form of the demon Raktabija, whose drops of blood were seeds of  
hundreds and thousands of demons like himself coming up. When the Devi severed  
the head of one Rakshasa, the blood fell on the ground profusely and from that  
blood, millions cropped up. And when She killed them, again another million  
cropped up. So there was no end for it. If you cut off one or two desires, the  
desire is not over. The root is still there. The branches are only severed.  
Unless the root is dug out, there is no use of merely severing the branches of  
the tree. So what did the Devi do? She asked Kali to spread her tongue  
throughout the earth, so that there is no ground at all for the Rakshasas to  
walk over. They had to walk over the tongue of Kali. So huge it was. And now  
the Goddess started cutting their heads and when the blood fell, it fell not  
on the ground but on the tongue of Kali. So she sucked everything. Chariots  
and horses and demons and everybody entered her mouth. She chewed all chariots  
into powder. So likewise, we have to adopt a technique of sucking the very  
root of desires and not merely chop off its branches. Otherwise, desires will  
take various forms like Mahishasura. When we think that Mahishasura has been  
killed, he comes as a buffalo and when the buffalo is attacked, he again comes  
as an elephant, and if Devi attacks the elephant, he comes as a bull and  
attacks Her. So, there is no way of overcoming these desires by merely dealing  
with them from outside by a frontal attack. Their very essence has to be  
sucked. Because, a desire is not an outward form or an action, it is a  
tendency within. You may do nothing, and yet you will have desires. Because,  
desire is not necessarily an activity. A desireful person need not be very  
active. He can be sitting quiet, doing nothing, saying nothing, and yet be  
full of desires. Because, it is a tendency of the mind, an inclination of  
consciousness, that we call a desire. That can be inside, even if there is  
outwardly nothing. This is the Vikshepa Sakti,--distraction, tossing and the  
chameleon-attitude of desire,--which attacks us, when, with Herculean efforts,  
we try to destroy or gain control over Kama and Krodha, Madhu and Kaitabha.  
After Madhu and Kaitabha, we get Mahishasura and Raktabija. Thus Mala and  
Vikshepa are the primary oppositions in our spiritual pursuit.   
Ancient masters have told us that while Mala or dirt of the psychological  
structure can be removed by Karma Yoga, by unselfish and dedicated service,  
Vikshepa or distraction of the mind can be removed only by worship of God, by  
Upasana. While Karma removes Mala, Upasana removes Vikshepa. But even now, we  
are not fully safe. While Mala might have gone and Vikshepa is not there, we  
may have a third trouble, namely, a complete oblivion of consciousness. We  
will have no knowledge of anything as to what is happening. Ajnana or  
Ignorance is a subtler opposing power than its effects in the form of Mala and  
Vikshepa. Distraction and direct sensual desires are the outer expressions of  
a subtle ignorance of Truth, Avidya or Ajnana. Why do we desire things?  
Because, we do not know the nature of Truth. Why does a strong wind blow?  
Because, the sun is covered over with clouds. The sun is covered by the clouds  
first, then there is darkness and then a gale, cyclone starts blowing from the  
north, breaking your umbrellas and uprooting trees. All these happen because  
the sun does not shine. Even so, when the Atman is covered over by ignorance  
of its nature, the winds of desire begin to blow, and they come like violent  
storms. Impetuous is the force of desire. You cannot stand against it, because  
the whole of Nature gets concentrated in a desire. That is why it is impetuous  
and uncontrollable. All the powers of Nature get focussed in a desire when it  
manifests itself, whatever be that desire. So the whole of Nature has to be  
subdued. You are not to subdue only your individual nature, but the cosmic  
Nature itself is to be subdued. This is what is depicted in the Epic of the  
Devi-Mahatmya. It is the subdual, overcoming, transformation of the cosmic  
Nature in the form of Tamas, Rajas and Sattva. While Mala represents Tamas,  
Vikshepa represents Rajas.   
Now, Sattva is also a Guna, unfortunately. We always praise Sattva and regard  
it as a very desirable thing. But it is like a transparent glass that is  
placed between us and the Truth. You can see through it, but you cannot go  
beyond it. Because, though the glass is transparent, it can obstruct your  
movement. It is not like a brick-wall, completely preventing your vision, as  
Tamas does; it is not like a blowing wind which simply tosses you here and  
there, as Rajas does; it is a plain glass, through which you can have vision  
of Reality, but you cannot contact Reality nevertheless. How can you contact a  
thing when there is a glass between you and the thing? Yet you can see it. So  
they say even Sattva is an obstacle, though it is better than the other two  
forces, in the sense that through it you can have a vision or an insight into  
the nature of Reality which transcends even Sattva. There is a glass pane and  
you can see a mango fruit on the other side of it. You can see it very well,  
but cannot get it, you cannot grab it. You know the reason. Even Sattva is a  
subtle medium of obstruction, which acts in a double form; as complacency or  
satisfaction with what has been achieved, and an ignorance of what is beyond.  
These two aspects of Sattva are indicated by the two personalities of Sumbha  
and Nisumbha. They have to be dispelled by the power of higher wisdom, which  
is Maha-Sarasvati.   
Action, contemplation and knowledge are the three stages through which we have  
to pierce through the veil of Prakriti or three Gunas. And as I mentioned  
earlier, we are not individual pedestrians on the path. There is no individual  
movement here. It is all a total movement of everything connected with us and  
no item in the world is really disconnected from us. Every thread in a cloth  
is connected with every other thread. When you lift one thread of a cloth, the  
whole cloth comes up, because of the interconnection of the warp and the woof  
of the cloth. Likewise, there is an internal interconnection of beings, which  
prevents any kind of individual effort for the sake of salvation. That is why  
salvation is universal, it is not individual. When you attain to the Supreme  
Being, you become the Universal Being. You do not go as a Mr. So and So or as  
a Mrs. So and So, there. So the path of Sadhana also is a cosmic effort of the  
soul, a subtle secret which most Sadhakas are likely to forget. It is not a  
small, simple, private effort of yours in the closet of your room, but a  
dynamic activity of your essential personality, internally connected by  
unforeseen relationships with everything in the cosmos. When you enter the  
path of the spirit, you have also at the same time entered the path of cosmic  
relationship. A Sadhaka is, therefore, a cosmic person. A spiritual seeker, an  
aspirant is a representative of cosmic situation. He is not an individual,  
though he looks like a person, and his Sadhana is not an individual effort. It  
is much more than what it appears to be on the surface. It is, as it were, the  
conversation between Nara and Narayana, Krishna-Arjuna-Samvada, as they call  
it. You and your God are face to face with each other. In Sadhana, in  
spiritual effort, you are face to face with your Maker. And the face of the  
Maker is universal. He is not in one spot, hiding himself in one corner.   
So, the dance of the cosmic spirit, in its supernal effort at self-  
transcendence, is majestically described in the beautifully worded sonorous  
songs of the Devi-Mahatmya, where we are given a stirring account, a  
stimulating description of what Maha-Kali did, what Maha-Lakshmi did and Maha-  
Sarasvati did in bringing about this evolution, transformation of the whole  
range of Prakriti from Tamas to Rajas, from Rajas to Sattva and from Sattva to  
Supreme Vijaya, mastery in the Absolute, God-realisation.   
So, through the worship of Maha-Kali, Maha-Lakshmi, and Maha-Sarasvati, we  
worship Mula-Prakriti, Adi-Sakti in her cosmic dance-form of transformation,  
prosperity and Illumination. In the beginning, what happens to a Sadhaka?  
There is a necessity of self-transformation. It is all hardship, rubbing and  
cleaning, washing, sweeping, etc. That is the first stage through the worship  
of Maha-Kali, who brings about a destruction of all barriers. Then what  
happens? There is tremendous prosperity. You become a master and a progressive  
soul commanding all powers, getting everything that you want. This is the  
second stage. In the first stage, it looked as if you were a poor person,  
having nothing, very weak. But, when you overcome this weakness, by removing  
the barrier of Tamas, you become prosperous. Nobody can be as rich as a Yogi,  
you know. He can command all the powers. By a thought he can invoke all  
things, and this is Goddess Maha-Lakshmi working. When Maha-Kali has finished  
her work of destruction of opposition, Maha-Lakshmi comes as prosperity. A  
great Yogi is also like a royal personality, because of his internal  
invocations, though unconsciously done, of cosmic powers. When prosperity  
dawns, it looks as if the whole universe is a heaven. In the first stage, it  
looked like a hell. Afterwards, in the second stage, it looks like a heaven,  
when Maha-Lakshmi begins to work. But this also is not sufficient. Knowledge  
should dawn. It is not heaven that you are asking for. You want the  
realisation of Truth. Sarasvati will come for help and a flood of light on  
Truth will be thrown and you will see things as they are. There is no  
enjoyment, prosperity, richness, wealth or any such thing. It is Truth  
unconnected with yourself in the beginning, but later on inseparable from  
yourself. Thus, from opposition to prosperity, from prosperity to  
enlightenment, and from enlightenment to Self-realisation do we proceed. So,  
these are the truths esoterically conveyed to us in the Mantras of the Devi-  
Mahatmya.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160404173211/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=16d2c6209f29fd30d574b577d27410ea;topic=5393.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160404173211/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=16d2c6209f29fd30d574b577d27410ea;topic=5393.0)   
---  

--- 
title: Devi   
tags: silentgreen  
---  
## Devi  
Author: silentgreen         Date: May 21, 2010, 03:27:22 PM  
---  
**Swami Vivekananda 's experience at Kshir Bhavani**   
It is two or three days since Swamiji has returned from Kashmir. His health is  
indifferent. When the disciple came to the Math, Swami Brahmananda said,  
"Since returning from Kashmir, Swamiji does not speak to anybody, he sits in  
one place rapt in thought; you go to him and by conversation try to draw his  
mind a little towards worldly objects."   
The disciple coming to Swamiji's room in the upper storey found him sitting as  
if immersed in deep mediation. There was no smile on his face, his brilliant  
eyes had no outward look, as if intent on seeing something within. Seeing the  
disciple, he only said, "You have come, my son? Please take your seat", and  
lapsed into silence. The disciple seeing the inside of his left eye reddened  
asked, "How is it that your eye is red?" "That is nothing", said Swamiji and  
was again silent. When even after a long time Swamiji did not speak, the  
disciple was a little troubled at heart and touching his feet said, "Won't you  
relate to me what things you have seen at Amarnath?" By the disciple's  
touching his feet, the tensity of his mood was broken a little, as if his  
attention was diverted a little outwards. He said, "Since visiting Amarnath, I  
feel as if Shiva is sitting on my head for twenty - four hours and would not  
come down." The disciple heard it with speechless wonder.   
Swamiji: I underwent great religious austerities at Amarnath and then in the  
temple of Kshir Bhavani. Go and prepare me some tobacco, I will relate  
everything to you.   
The disciple joyfully obeyed the order. Swamiji slowly smoking began to say,  
"On the way to Amarnath, I made a very steep ascent on the mountain. Pilgrims  
do not generally travel by that path. But the determination came upon me that  
I must go by that path, and so I did. The labour of the strenuous ascent has  
told on my body. The cold there is so biting that you feel it like pin -  
pricks."   
Disciple: I have heard that it is the custom to visit the image of Amarnath  
naked; is it so?   
Swamiji: Yes, I entered the cave with only my Kaupina on and my body smeared  
with holy ash; I did not then feel any cold or heat. But when I came out of  
the temple, I was benumbed by the cold.   
Disciple: Did you see the holy pigeons? I have heard, in that cold no living  
creatures are found to live, but a flight of pigeons from some unknown place  
frequents the place occasionally.   
Swamiji: Yes, I saw three or four white pigeons; whether they live in the cave  
or the neighboring hills, I could not ascertain.   
Disciple: Sir, I have heard people say that the sight of pigeons on coming out  
of the temple indicates that one has really been blessed with the vision of  
Shiva.   
Swamiji: I have heard that the sight of the pigeons brings to fruition  
whatever desires one may have.   
Then Swamiji said that on the way back he returned to Srinagar by the common  
route by which the pilgrims return. A few days after returning to Srinagar, he  
went to visit Kshir Bhavani Devi and staying there for seven days worshipped  
the Devi and made Homa to her with offerings of Kshira (condensed milk). Every  
day he used to worship the Devi with a maund of Kshira as offering. One day,  
while worshipping, the thought arose in Swamiji's mind: "Mother Bhavani has  
been manifesting Her Presence here for untold years. The Mohammedans came and  
destroyed her temple, yet the people of the place did nothing to protect Her.  
Alas, if I were then living I could never have borne it silently." When,  
thinking in this strain, his mind was much oppressed with sorrow and anguish,  
he distinctly heard the voice of the Mother saying, "It was according to My  
desire that the Mohammedans destroyed this temple. It is My desire that I  
should live in a dilapidated temple, otherwise, can I not immediately erect a  
seven - storeyed temple of gold here if I like? What can you do? Shall I  
protect you or shall you protect me!" Swamiji said, "Since hearing that divine  
voice, I cherish no more plans. The idea of building Maths etc. I have given  
up; as Mother wills, so it will be." The disciple, speechless with wonder,  
began to think, "Did he not one day tell me that whatever I saw and heard was  
but the echo of the Atman within me, that there was nothing outside?"\-- and  
fearlessly spoke it out also --"Sir, you used to say that Divine Voices are  
the echo of our inward thoughts and feelings." Swamiji gravely said, "Whether  
it be internal or external, if you actually hear with your ears such a  
disembodied voice, as I have done, can you deny it and call it false? Divine  
Voices are actually heard, just as you and I are talking."   
The disciple, without controverting accepted Swamiji's words, for his words  
always carried conviction.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20190428051846/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5393.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20190428051846/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5393.0)   
---  

## Re:[1] Devi  
Author: silentgreen         Date: May 21, 2010, 03:38:43 PM  
---  
**Condensed from the "The Esoteric Significance of Devi Mahatmyam" by Swami  
Krishnananda of Divine Life Society**   
The Devi-Mahatmya which is a majestic poetry in Sanskrit, describes to us the  
Epic of the march of the human soul to its destination, the realisation of  
this freedom, is the dramatic aspect of the great worship of the Divine Mother  
during these nine days of Navaratri or Dassehra as you call it. The march of  
the soul is dramatic. It is not a lagging or a crawling but a beautiful,  
sonorous, musical advent, you may call it. This is the beauty of the Devi-  
Mahatmya. All Epics have this particular character of grandeur, uplifting the  
emotions, and chastening the intellect of the devotee who goes through them.   
The Devi-Mahatmya is a part of the Markandeya Purana, containing thirteen  
chapters which are grouped into three sections, known as the Prathama  
Charitra, Madhyama Charitra and the Uttama Charitra.   
The march of the soul is graduated into three major steps, though there are  
many minor steps involved in these three major ones. While we have to rise  
through various rungs of the ladder of evolution, we come to three points or  
halting places, we may call them, where there is a complete transformation of  
outlook, attitude and constitution of our being. These threefold  
transformations of the spiritual being of the aspiring soul are dominated or  
presided over by three deities known as Maha-Kali, Maha-Lakshmi and Maha-  
Sarasvati.   
There are three stages of transformation described in the three sections of  
the Devi-Mahatmya. The first one is where Adi-Sakti awakes Maha-Vishnu who was  
asleep, so that He may destroy or overcome the original demoniacal forces,  
Madhu and Kaitabha. The second stage is where the same Sakti manifests Herself  
as Maha-Lakshmi and overcomes Mahishasura and Raktabija. The third one is  
where Sumbha and Nisumbha are destroyed by Maha-Sarasvati. And the nine days  
of worship comprehend these three stages adored in three days of worship,  
each. The final victory is called Vijaya-Dasami, the tenth day, as you know.  
That is the day of Victory, where you master the forces of Nature completely  
and your goal is reached.   
The lower powers of Nature are like dirt. We call them Mala, 'Vishnukarna-  
Malodbhuto Hantum Brahmanamudyato', says the Devi-Mahatmya. The Madhu and  
Kaitabha, two Rakshasas (demons) are supposed to have come out of the dirt of  
the ear of Vishnu. The lowest category of opposition is of the nature of dirt,  
Mala; and psychologically, from the point of view of the seeking soul, this  
dirt is in the form of Kama, Krodha and Lobha. 'Kama Esha Krodha Esha Rajo-  
guna Samudbhavah,' 'Kamah Krodhastatha Lobhah Tasmat Etat Trayam Tyajet'\--It  
is desire and anger born of Rajas; desire, anger and greed, these three  
therefore should be abandoned,--says the Bhagavadgita. These three are the  
gates to hell. These three are regarded as dirt, because they cover the  
consciousness in such a way that it appears to be not there at all. It is like  
painting a thin glass with coal-tar. You cannot see the glass. It is all  
pitch-dark like clouds. This has to be rubbed off with great effort.   
When this Mala or dirt is removed, we get into another trouble. Do not think  
that when you are tentatively a master of Kama, Krodha and Lobha, you are a  
real master of yourself. "There are more things in heaven and earth than your  
philosophy dreams of, O Horatio," said Hamlet. So do not think that your  
philosophy is exhaustive. There are many more things that philosophy cannot  
comprehend. Kama, Krodha and Lobha are not the only enemies. There are subtler  
ones, more formidable than these visible foes. As a matter of fact, the subtle  
invisible enemies are more difficult to overcome than the visible ones.  
Sometimes you know, an angry man is better than a smiling person. Smiling  
person is more dangerous than the angry one, because he can have a knife under  
his arm-pit. This is what we will face. When we manage somehow to overcome  
this Madhu and Kaitabha, Kama and Krodha, we get into the clutches of  
Mahishasura and Raktabija. They represent the Vikhepa Sakti, the tossing of  
the mind. Every minute the mind changes its forms which multiply in millions.  
You read in the Devi-Mahatmya, how Mahishasura changed his form. Now he is an  
elephant, now he is a buffalo, now he is something else. If you hit him in one  
form, he comes in another form. And this is your inexhaustible opponent. His  
energies are incapable of being exhausted. However much you may try to oppose  
the Vikshepa Sakti, it will manifest in some form or other. This is described  
in the form of the demon Raktabija, whose drops of blood were seeds of  
hundreds and thousands of demons like himself coming up. When the Devi severed  
the head of one Rakshasa, the blood fell on the ground profusely and from that  
blood, millions cropped up. And when She killed them, again another million  
cropped up. So there was no end for it. If you cut off one or two desires, the  
desire is not over. The root is still there. The branches are only severed.  
Unless the root is dug out, there is no use of merely severing the branches of  
the tree. So what did the Devi do? She asked Kali to spread her tongue  
throughout the earth, so that there is no ground at all for the Rakshasas to  
walk over. They had to walk over the tongue of Kali. So huge it was. And now  
the Goddess started cutting their heads and when the blood fell, it fell not  
on the ground but on the tongue of Kali. So she sucked everything. Chariots  
and horses and demons and everybody entered her mouth. She chewed all chariots  
into powder. So likewise, we have to adopt a technique of sucking the very  
root of desires and not merely chop off its branches. Otherwise, desires will  
take various forms like Mahishasura. When we think that Mahishasura has been  
killed, he comes as a buffalo and when the buffalo is attacked, he again comes  
as an elephant, and if Devi attacks the elephant, he comes as a bull and  
attacks Her. So, there is no way of overcoming these desires by merely dealing  
with them from outside by a frontal attack. Their very essence has to be  
sucked. Because, a desire is not an outward form or an action, it is a  
tendency within. You may do nothing, and yet you will have desires. Because,  
desire is not necessarily an activity. A desireful person need not be very  
active. He can be sitting quiet, doing nothing, saying nothing, and yet be  
full of desires. Because, it is a tendency of the mind, an inclination of  
consciousness, that we call a desire. That can be inside, even if there is  
outwardly nothing. This is the Vikshepa Sakti,--distraction, tossing and the  
chameleon-attitude of desire,--which attacks us, when, with Herculean efforts,  
we try to destroy or gain control over Kama and Krodha, Madhu and Kaitabha.  
After Madhu and Kaitabha, we get Mahishasura and Raktabija. Thus Mala and  
Vikshepa are the primary oppositions in our spiritual pursuit.   
Ancient masters have told us that while Mala or dirt of the psychological  
structure can be removed by Karma Yoga, by unselfish and dedicated service,  
Vikshepa or distraction of the mind can be removed only by worship of God, by  
Upasana. While Karma removes Mala, Upasana removes Vikshepa. But even now, we  
are not fully safe. While Mala might have gone and Vikshepa is not there, we  
may have a third trouble, namely, a complete oblivion of consciousness. We  
will have no knowledge of anything as to what is happening. Ajnana or  
Ignorance is a subtler opposing power than its effects in the form of Mala and  
Vikshepa. Distraction and direct sensual desires are the outer expressions of  
a subtle ignorance of Truth, Avidya or Ajnana. Why do we desire things?  
Because, we do not know the nature of Truth. Why does a strong wind blow?  
Because, the sun is covered over with clouds. The sun is covered by the clouds  
first, then there is darkness and then a gale, cyclone starts blowing from the  
north, breaking your umbrellas and uprooting trees. All these happen because  
the sun does not shine. Even so, when the Atman is covered over by ignorance  
of its nature, the winds of desire begin to blow, and they come like violent  
storms. Impetuous is the force of desire. You cannot stand against it, because  
the whole of Nature gets concentrated in a desire. That is why it is impetuous  
and uncontrollable. All the powers of Nature get focussed in a desire when it  
manifests itself, whatever be that desire. So the whole of Nature has to be  
subdued. You are not to subdue only your individual nature, but the cosmic  
Nature itself is to be subdued. This is what is depicted in the Epic of the  
Devi-Mahatmya. It is the subdual, overcoming, transformation of the cosmic  
Nature in the form of Tamas, Rajas and Sattva. While Mala represents Tamas,  
Vikshepa represents Rajas.   
Now, Sattva is also a Guna, unfortunately. We always praise Sattva and regard  
it as a very desirable thing. But it is like a transparent glass that is  
placed between us and the Truth. You can see through it, but you cannot go  
beyond it. Because, though the glass is transparent, it can obstruct your  
movement. It is not like a brick-wall, completely preventing your vision, as  
Tamas does; it is not like a blowing wind which simply tosses you here and  
there, as Rajas does; it is a plain glass, through which you can have vision  
of Reality, but you cannot contact Reality nevertheless. How can you contact a  
thing when there is a glass between you and the thing? Yet you can see it. So  
they say even Sattva is an obstacle, though it is better than the other two  
forces, in the sense that through it you can have a vision or an insight into  
the nature of Reality which transcends even Sattva. There is a glass pane and  
you can see a mango fruit on the other side of it. You can see it very well,  
but cannot get it, you cannot grab it. You know the reason. Even Sattva is a  
subtle medium of obstruction, which acts in a double form; as complacency or  
satisfaction with what has been achieved, and an ignorance of what is beyond.  
These two aspects of Sattva are indicated by the two personalities of Sumbha  
and Nisumbha. They have to be dispelled by the power of higher wisdom, which  
is Maha-Sarasvati.   
Action, contemplation and knowledge are the three stages through which we have  
to pierce through the veil of Prakriti or three Gunas. And as I mentioned  
earlier, we are not individual pedestrians on the path. There is no individual  
movement here. It is all a total movement of everything connected with us and  
no item in the world is really disconnected from us. Every thread in a cloth  
is connected with every other thread. When you lift one thread of a cloth, the  
whole cloth comes up, because of the interconnection of the warp and the woof  
of the cloth. Likewise, there is an internal interconnection of beings, which  
prevents any kind of individual effort for the sake of salvation. That is why  
salvation is universal, it is not individual. When you attain to the Supreme  
Being, you become the Universal Being. You do not go as a Mr. So and So or as  
a Mrs. So and So, there. So the path of Sadhana also is a cosmic effort of the  
soul, a subtle secret which most Sadhakas are likely to forget. It is not a  
small, simple, private effort of yours in the closet of your room, but a  
dynamic activity of your essential personality, internally connected by  
unforeseen relationships with everything in the cosmos. When you enter the  
path of the spirit, you have also at the same time entered the path of cosmic  
relationship. A Sadhaka is, therefore, a cosmic person. A spiritual seeker, an  
aspirant is a representative of cosmic situation. He is not an individual,  
though he looks like a person, and his Sadhana is not an individual effort. It  
is much more than what it appears to be on the surface. It is, as it were, the  
conversation between Nara and Narayana, Krishna-Arjuna-Samvada, as they call  
it. You and your God are face to face with each other. In Sadhana, in  
spiritual effort, you are face to face with your Maker. And the face of the  
Maker is universal. He is not in one spot, hiding himself in one corner.   
So, the dance of the cosmic spirit, in its supernal effort at self-  
transcendence, is majestically described in the beautifully worded sonorous  
songs of the Devi-Mahatmya, where we are given a stirring account, a  
stimulating description of what Maha-Kali did, what Maha-Lakshmi did and Maha-  
Sarasvati did in bringing about this evolution, transformation of the whole  
range of Prakriti from Tamas to Rajas, from Rajas to Sattva and from Sattva to  
Supreme Vijaya, mastery in the Absolute, God-realisation.   
So, through the worship of Maha-Kali, Maha-Lakshmi, and Maha-Sarasvati, we  
worship Mula-Prakriti, Adi-Sakti in her cosmic dance-form of transformation,  
prosperity and Illumination. In the beginning, what happens to a Sadhaka?  
There is a necessity of self-transformation. It is all hardship, rubbing and  
cleaning, washing, sweeping, etc. That is the first stage through the worship  
of Maha-Kali, who brings about a destruction of all barriers. Then what  
happens? There is tremendous prosperity. You become a master and a progressive  
soul commanding all powers, getting everything that you want. This is the  
second stage. In the first stage, it looked as if you were a poor person,  
having nothing, very weak. But, when you overcome this weakness, by removing  
the barrier of Tamas, you become prosperous. Nobody can be as rich as a Yogi,  
you know. He can command all the powers. By a thought he can invoke all  
things, and this is Goddess Maha-Lakshmi working. When Maha-Kali has finished  
her work of destruction of opposition, Maha-Lakshmi comes as prosperity. A  
great Yogi is also like a royal personality, because of his internal  
invocations, though unconsciously done, of cosmic powers. When prosperity  
dawns, it looks as if the whole universe is a heaven. In the first stage, it  
looked like a hell. Afterwards, in the second stage, it looks like a heaven,  
when Maha-Lakshmi begins to work. But this also is not sufficient. Knowledge  
should dawn. It is not heaven that you are asking for. You want the  
realisation of Truth. Sarasvati will come for help and a flood of light on  
Truth will be thrown and you will see things as they are. There is no  
enjoyment, prosperity, richness, wealth or any such thing. It is Truth  
unconnected with yourself in the beginning, but later on inseparable from  
yourself. Thus, from opposition to prosperity, from prosperity to  
enlightenment, and from enlightenment to Self-realisation do we proceed. So,  
these are the truths esoterically conveyed to us in the Mantras of the Devi-  
Mahatmya.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20190428051846/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5393.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20190428051846/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5393.0)   
---  

