--- 
title: Why 0 is 0- 1 is 1- 2 is 2 etc-   
tags: silentgreen Subramanian.R ramanaduli  
---  
## The Significance of Sri Ramakrishna : by Swami Vivekananda  
Author: silentgreen         Date: March 18, 2010, 01:09:45 PM  
---  
**Shri Ramakrishna: The Significance of his Life and Teachings:**   
In a narrow society there is depth and intensity of spirituality. The narrow  
stream is very rapid. In a catholic society, along with the breadth of vision  
we find a proportionate loss in depth and intensity. But the life of Sri  
Ramakrishna upsets all records of history. It is a remarkable phenomenon that  
in Sri Ramakrishna there has been an assemblage of ideas deeper than the sea  
and vaster than the skies.   
We must interpret the Vedas in the light of the experience of Sri Ramakrishna.  
Shankaracharya and all other commentators made the tremendous mistake to think  
that the whole of the Vedas spoke the same truth. Therefore they were guilty  
of torturing those of the apparently conflicting Vedic texts which go against  
their own doctrines, into the meaning of their particular schools. As, in the  
olden times, it was the Lord alone, the deliverer of the Gita, who partially  
harmonised these apparently conflicting statements, so with a view to  
completely settling this dispute, immensely magnified in the process of time,  
He Himself has come as Sri Ramakrishna. Therefore no one can truly understand  
the Vedas and Vedanta, unless one studies them in the light of the utterance  
of Sri Ramakrishna who first exemplified in his life and taught that these  
scriptural statements which appear to the cursory view as contradictory, are  
meant for different grades of aspirants and are arranged in the order of  
evolution. The whole world will undoubtedly forget its fights and disputes and  
be united in a fraternal tie in religious and other matters as a consequence  
of these teachings.   
If there is anything which Sri Ramakrishna has urged us to give up as  
carefully as lust and wealth, it is the limiting of the infinitude of God by  
circumscribing it within narrow bounds. Whoever, therefore, will try to limit  
the infinite ideals of Sri Ramakrishna in that way, will go against him and be  
his enemy.   
One of his own utterances is that those who have seen the chameleon only once,  
know only one colour of the animal, but those who have lived under the tree,  
know all the colours that it puts on. For this reason, no saying of Sri  
Ramakrishna can be accepted as authentic, unless it is verified by those who  
constantly lived with him and whom he brought up to fulfil his life's mission.   
Such a unique personality, such a synthesis of the utmost of Jnana, Yoga,  
Bhakti and Karma, has never before appeared among mankind. The life of Sri  
Ramakrishna proves that the greatest breadth, the highest catholicity and the  
utmost intensity can exist side by side in the same individual, and that  
society also can be constructed like that, for society is nothing but an  
aggregate of individuals.   
He is the true disciple and follower of Sri Ramakrishna, whose character is  
perfect and all-sided like this. The formation of such a perfect character is  
the ideal of this age, and everyone should strive for that alone.   
By force, think of one thing at least as Brahman. Of course it is easier to  
think of Ramakrishna as God, but the danger is that we cannot form Ishvara-  
buddhi (vision of Divinity) in others. God is eternal, without any form,  
omnipresent. To think of Him as possessing any form is blasphemy. But the  
secret of image-worship is that you are trying to develop your vision of  
Divinity in one thing.   
Shri Ramakrishna used to consider himself as an Incarnation in the ordinary  
sense of the term, though I could not understand it. I used to say that he was  
Brahman in the Vedantic sense; but just before his passing away, when he was  
suffering from the characteristic difficulty in breathing, he said to me as I  
was cogitating in my mind whether he could even in that pain say that he was  
an Incarnation, "He who was Rama and Krishna has now actually become  
Ramakrishna — but not in your Vedantic sense!" He used to love me intensely,  
which made many quite jealous of me. He knew one's character by sight, and  
never changed his opinion. He could perceive, as it were, supersensual things,  
while we try to know one's character by reason, with the result that our  
judgments are often fallacious. He called some persons his Antarangas or  
'belonging to the inner circle', and he used to teach them the secrets of his  
own nature and those of Yoga. To the outsiders or Bahirangas he taught those  
parables now known as "Sayings". He used to prepare those young men (the  
former class) for his work, and though many complained to him about them, he  
paid no heed. I may have perhaps a better opinion of a Bahiranga than an  
Antaranga through his actions, but I have a superstitious regard for the  
latter. "Love me, love my dog", as they say. I love that Brahmin priest  
intensely, and therefore, love whatever he used to love, whatever he used to  
regard! He was afraid about me that I might create a sect, if left to myself.   
He used to say to some, "You will not attain spirituality in this life." He  
sensed everything, and this will explain his apparent partiality to some. He,  
as a scientist, used to see that different people required different  
treatment. None except those of the "inner circle" were allowed to sleep in  
his room. It is not true that those who have not seen him will not attain  
salvation; neither is it true that a man who has seen him thrice will attain  
Mukti (liberation).   
Devotion as taught by Narada, he used to preach to the masses, those who were  
incapable of any higher training.   
He used generally to teach dualism. As a rule, he never taught Advaitism. But  
he taught it to me. I had been a dualist before.   
In order that a nation may rise, it must have a high ideal. Now, that ideal  
is, of course, the abstract Brahman. But as you all cannot be inspired by an  
abstract ideal, you must have a personal ideal. You have got that, in the  
person of Shri Ramakrishna. The reason why other personages cannot be our  
ideal now is, that their days are gone; and in order that Vedanta may come to  
everyone, there must be a person who is in sympathy with the present  
generation. This is fulfilled in Shri Ramakrishna. So now you should place him  
before everyone. Whether one accepts him as a Sâdhu or an Avatâra does not  
matter.   
He said he would come once more with us. Then, I think, he will embrace  
Videha-Mukti (Absolute Emancipation). If you wish to work, you must have such  
an Ishta-Devata, or Guardian Angel, as the Christian nations call it. I  
sometimes imagine that different nations have different Ishta-Devatas, and  
these are each trying for supremacy. Sometimes I fancy, such an Ishta-Devata  
becomes powerless to do service to a nation.   
\ _Swami Vivekananda_
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20100706234046/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=4796.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20100706234046/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=4796.0)   
---  

## Why 0 is 0, 1 is 1, 2 is 2 etc.,  
Author: Subramanian.R       Date: January 16, 2010, 12:46:23 PM  
---  
Why O is O, 1 is 1, 2 is 2 etc.,?   
These numbers are called Arabic algorithms. Roman algorithms   
which came later is 0, I, II, III, IV, V etc.,   
Arabians fixed the forms of these numbers with some hidden   
principles.   
I want mathematical wizards in the Forum to respond.   
Arunachala Siva.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20100706153539/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=4798.0;prev_next=next](http://web.archive.org/web/20100706153539/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=4798.0;prev_next=next)   
---  

## Re:[1] Why 0 is 0, 1 is 1, 2 is 2 etc.,  
Author: ramanaduli          Date: March 18, 2010, 06:50:08 AM  
---  
I heard indians are the first people who invented numbers. Especially 0.  
Sometimes I will the 0 has many meanings apart from mathematics.   
In day to day life if a person does not have common sense others say he is  
zero. means he does not has sense.   
On the other hand in spiritual field it is called sunyam and some people  
practice for this sunyata.   
But for me the same zero looks like a complete one. i.e. purnam., From, this  
purnam only all starts and we have to come to the end ( purnam) i,e,   
completion. All planets look like zero means it is a complete one. If you  
start from a bindu and try to join the bindu we reach where we started. The  
joining is looks like a journey.   
The bindu also has great meaning in our hindu culture. Lalitha thripurasundari  
is called bindu vasini, in sri vidya cult. From Her i.e. from bindu jivas are  
taking journey and if jivas are careful to join the bindu i.e. Goddess then we  
become purnam. There are so many meanings hidden in this zero.   
Ramanaduli
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20100706153539/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=4798.0;prev_next=next](http://web.archive.org/web/20100706153539/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=4798.0;prev_next=next)   
---  

