--- 
title: Kanaka Dasa   
tags: ramana_maharshi Subramanian.R  
---  
## Kanaka Dasa  
Author: ramana_maharshi     Date: August 31, 2010, 01:00:10 PM  
---  
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kanaka_Dasa   
Kanaka Dasa (1509–1609) **was a great poet, philosopher, musician and  
composer from Karnataka. He is known for his Kirtanes and Ugabhoga  
compositions in the Kannada language for Carnatic music.** Like some other  
dasas, he often used colloquial language for his compositions.   
Thimmappa Nayaka was his original name and he belonged to chieftain (Kuruba)  
family of Kaginele in Haveri district. He was born to the Kuruba gowda couple  
Biregowda and Beechamma at baad. Kanaka Nayaka being of the warrior community  
(Kuruba) his defeat in the field of battle, directed him to the path of  
devotion. He came to be called Kanaka Nayaka as he found a treasure-trove of  
gold (kanaka means gold in Kannada).   
Kanaka Dasa was well educated and capable of analyzing the society  
microscopically. Based on one of his compositions it is interpreted that after  
he severely got injured in a war and was miraculously saved, he gave up his  
profession as a warrior and devoted his life to composing music and literature  
with philosophy explained in common man's language.   
The deity he worshiped was Adhikeshava of Kaginele, presently in Haveri  
district of Karnataka. Kaginele, now a village, was a prosperous place and  
trading center in the Middle Ages. Out of the many of his compositions, about  
240 are fully accountable today. All his Karnataka Music compositions end with  
mudra (signature) Kaginele Adhikeshava.   
In addition to being a poet he worked as a social reformer by down playing  
dogmatic communities that were suppressing the disadvantaged communities.  
Kanakadasa made extreme effort in reforming the disadvantaged communities by  
convincing them to give-up their age old obsolete social practices and adapt  
to the changing world. He effectively used music to convey his philosophy. He  
lived at Tirupathi in his last days.   
He is one of the greatest musician, composer, poet, social reformer,  
philosopher and saints that India has ever seen.   
 **The following is the translation of Nee Mayeyolago:**   
Quote  
> Are you a creature of illusion? or illusion your creation?   
>   
> Are you a part of the body? Or is the body a part of you?   
>   
> Is space within the house? Or the house within space? Or are both space and  
> the house within the seeing eye?   
>   
> Is the eye within the mind? Or the mind within the eye? Or are both the eye  
> and the mind within you?   
>   
> Does sweetness lie in sugar, or sugar in sweetness? Or do both sweetness and  
> sugar lie in the tongue?   
>   
> Is the tongue within the mind? Or the mind within the tongue? Or are both  
> the tongue and the mind within you?   
>   
> Does fragrance lie in the flower? Or the flower in fragrance? Or do both the  
> flower and fragrance lie in the nostrils? I cannot say, O Lord Adikeshava of  
> Kaginele, O! peerless one, are all things within you alone?  
This was a famous phrase Kanakadaasa is quoted to have said in front of all  
vedantis, when asked who will attain Moksha. This question was asked by  
Vyasatirtha in a sabha, to actually bring light into Kanakadasara bhakti.  
Kanakadasa humbly but assertively tells that no one here will attain moksha.  
Only he can attain Moksha, on hearing this the pandits present there were  
taken aback and were very angry.   
Then Vyasatirtha asks Kanaka to exlpain what it means, then he goes ahead and  
explains the meaning, which actually meant w **ho has lost the Naanu (  
"Self"/"I") i.e.; ego will attain Moksha. **   
Kanakadasa has special association with Udupi and as he was the follower of  
Sri Vyasaraja Swamiji. On the advice of Vyasaraja Swamiji he had come to  
Udupi. He stood outside the matha and was lost in his prayers to Lord Krishna  
by singing songs in praise of the Lord and had darshan of the lord through a  
small window.   
All devotees who visit **Udupi Krishna Matha take a peek at Lord Krishna**  
through the small window, wishing to relive the ecstasy of Kanakadasa. It is  
also a memorial to Kanakadasa and a testimony to the eclectic Hindu belief  
that devotion, poetry and sainthood are above caste and creed and certainty  
above orthodoxy. In all Hindu temples the deity and the main door of the  
temple face the east, but in Udupi the deity faces the west. Kanakadasa once  
wanted to have a darshan (encounter) of the Lord Krishna in Udupi. He was not  
allowed into the shrine by castist priests as he was not a higher-caste by  
birth. Kanakadasa then started singing the praises of Shri Krishna and was  
lost to outside world in a corner outside the temple.   
Legend has it that the murti of Krishna, which had previously been facing  
east, turned around to face west, as the western wall collapsed so that  
Kanakadasa could have darshan. A small window was constructed at the breach  
later. The idol of Lord Krishna is still today worshipped through the window.  
This window came to be known as Kanakana kindi (Kanaka’s window). Historical  
evidence shows that there was indeed a small earthquake on that day which led  
to the collapse of the wall and turning of the statue of krishna to west. The  
memory of Kanakadasa was permanently etched in the temple of his beloved Lord  
Krishna. Today that window stands as a tribute to the unique saint of  
Karnataka.   
From that time onward, Kanakadasa could have the darshan of Sri Krishna with  
his physical eyes as well as his inner eye. To perpetuate this sacred memory,  
the tradition of looking at the icon of Sri Krishna through this window before  
entering the shrine started.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20170906225730/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6182.0;prev_next=prev](http://web.archive.org/web/20170906225730/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6182.0;prev_next=prev)   
---  

## Re:[1] Kanaka Dasa  
Author: Subramanian.R       Date: September 01, 2010, 12:23:54 PM  
---  
Dear prasanth,   
Very nice post on this day of Janmashtami. Kanaka Dasa was an   
outcaste and the brahmins of Udupi did not allow him to see or enter   
the sanctum sanctorum of Krishna. He simply stayed near the outerwall on the  
rear side of the sanctum and was praying to Krishna.   
Krishna turned 180 degrees and faced the wall and through the window the saint  
could have darshan of Krishna. The orthodox brahmins were bewildered and  
brought him inside. Even today, in Udupi, the darshan for everyone is through  
that window [called Kankana Kidikki], only since Krishna did not turn to the  
original position again!   
Kanakadasa was not well read and he knew only colloquial Kannada   
but he brought in sublime thoughts through that simple language.   
Coincidentally, in Sri Sankara TV, by about 5 am, this morning, they showed  
Udupi. We could see Krishna through the window.   
Krishna nee begene baro....   
Arunachala Siva.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20170906225730/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6182.0;prev_next=prev](http://web.archive.org/web/20170906225730/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6182.0;prev_next=prev)   
---  

