--- 
title: Love of God   
tags: silentgreen ramana_maharshi Subramanian.R  
---  
## Love of God  
Author: silentgreen         Date: October 05, 2010, 05:24:54 PM  
---  
**SEE GOD IN ALL**   
 **Sri Ramakrishna** \-- I have now come to a stage of realization in which I  
see that God is walking in every human form and manifesting Himself alike  
through the sage and the sinner, the virtuous and the vicious. Therefore when  
I meet different people I say to myself, "God in the form of the saint, God in  
the form of the sinner, God in the form of the righteous, God in the form of  
the unrighteous."   
 **Holy Mother** \-- If you want peace of mind, do not find fault with others.  
Rather see your own faults. Learn to make the whole world your own. No one is  
a stranger, my child; the whole world is your own.   
 **Swami Vivekananda** \-- This is the gist of all worship -- to be pure and  
to do good to others. He who sees Siva in the poor, in the weak, and in the  
diseased, really worships Siva, and if he sees Siva only in the image, his  
worship is but preliminary. He who has served and helped one poor man seeing  
Siva in him, without thinking of his cast, creed, or race, or anything, with  
him Siva is more pleased than with the man who sees Him only in temples.   
 **Buddha** \-- Goodwill toward all beings is the true religion; cherish in  
your hearts boundless goodwill to all that lives.   
 **Guru Nanak** \-- God is one, but He has innumerable forms. He is the  
Creator of all and He Himself takes the human form.   
 **Jesus Christ** \-- But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that  
curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully  
use you, and persecute you. That you may be the children of your Father which  
is in heaven; for he makes his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and  
sends rain on the just and on the unjust.   
 **Judaism** \-- You shall not hate your brother in your heart, but you shall  
reason with your neighbor, lest you bear in sin because of him. You shall not  
take vengeance or bear any grudge against the sons of your own people, but you  
shall love your neighbor as yourself.   
 **Krishna** \-- He who sees the Supreme Lord abiding alike in all beings, and  
not perishing when they perish - verily, he alone sees.   
 **Mohammed** \-- All God’s creatures are His family; and he is the most  
beloved of God who tries to do most good to God’s creatures.   
 **Native American** \-- Every dawn as it comes is a holy event, and every day  
is holy, for the light comes from your Father, Wakan-Tanka; and also always  
remember that the two-leggeds and all other peoples who stand upon this earth  
are sacred and should be treated as such.   
 **Rama** \-- It is the shadow of the Paramatman that you see reflected in all  
the living beings as the Jivatman. Don’t you see the great sky reflected in  
each and every lake or river?   
 **Sankara** \-- Vishnu alone it is who dwells in you, in me, in everything;  
Empty of meaning is your wrath, and the impatience you reveal. Seeing yourself  
in everyone, have done with all diversity.   
 **Vedas** \-- The wise man beholds all beings in the Self, and the Self in  
all beings; for that reason he does not hate anyone.   
 **Zoroaster** \-- Forget self and identify Ahura Mazda in every being and in  
everything.   
 **GOD IS WITHIN YOU**   
 **Sri Ramakrishna** \-- Do you know what I see? I see Him as all. Men and  
other creatures appear to me only as hollow forms, moving their heads and  
hands and feet, but within is the Lord Himself.   
 **Holy Mother** \-- When one realizes God, He grants knowledge and  
illumination from within; one knows it oneself. In the fullness of one’s  
spiritual realization one will find that He who resides in one’s heart,  
resides in the hearts of others as well - the oppressed, the persecuted, the  
untouchable, and the outcast.   
 **Swami Vivekananda** \-- It is impossible to find God outside of ourselves.  
Our own souls contribute all of the divinity that is outside of us. We are the  
greatest temple. The objectification is only a faint imitation of what we see  
within ourselves.   
 **Buddha** \-- The subject on which I meditate is truth. The practice to  
which I devote myself is the truth. The topic of my conversation is truth. My  
thoughts are always in truth. For lo! my self has become the truth.   
 **Guru Nanak** \-- As fragrance abides in the flower,   
As the reflection is within the mirror,   
So doth thy Lord abide within thee,   
Why search Him without?   
 **Jesus Christ** \-- Being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God was  
coming, he answered them, "The kingdom of God is not coming with signs to be  
observed; nor will they say, ‘Lo, here it is!’ or ‘There!’ for behold,  
the kingdom of God is within you."   
 **Judaism** \-- Create in me a clean heart, O God, and put a new and right  
spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not the holy  
Spirit from me.   
 **Krishna** \-- I am the Self, O Gudekesa, seated in the hearts of all  
creatures. I am the beginning, the middle, and the end of all beings.   
 **Mohammed** \-- He who knows his own self, knows God.   
 **Native American** \-- The first peace, which is most important, is that  
which comes within the souls of men when they realize their relationship,  
their oneness, with the universe and all its Powers, and when they realize  
that at the center of the universe dwells Wakan-Tanka, and that this center is  
really everywhere, it is within each of us. This is the real Peace, and the  
others are but reflections of this. The second peace is that which is made  
between two individuals, and the third is that which is made between two  
nations. But above all you should understand that there can never be peace  
between nations until there is first known that true peace which, as I have  
often said, is within the souls of men.   
 **Rama** \-- Think that you are Parabrahman, you have no attachment, you are  
all-knowing and you are pure. Always feel like this and establish your oneness  
with the Paramatman and derive bliss within yourself without caring to know  
what is outside of you.   
 **Sankara** \-- Cherish your Guru’s lotus feet and free yourself without  
delay from the enslavement to this world. Curb your senses and your mind and  
see the Lord within your heart.   
 **Vedas** \-- There is one Supreme Ruler, the inmost Self of all beings, who  
makes His one form manifold. Eternal happiness belongs to the wise, who  
perceive Him within themselves - not to others.   
 **Zoroaster** \-- One need not scale the heights of the heavens nor travel  
along the highways of the world to find Ahura Mazda. With purity of mind and  
holiness of heart one can find Him in one’s own heart.   
 **PERSEVERE IN YOUR SEARCH FOR GOD**   
 **Sri Ramakrishna** \-- There are pearls in the deep sea, but one must hazard  
all to find them. If diving once does not bring you pearls, you need not  
therefore conclude that the sea is without them. Dive again and again. You are  
sure to be rewarded in the end. So is it with the finding of the Lord in this  
world. If your first attempt proves fruitless, do not lose heart. Persevere in  
your efforts. You are sure to realize Him at last.   
 **Holy Mother** \-- Continue to pray without losing heart. Everything will  
happen in time.   
 **Swami Vivekananda** \-- To succeed, you must have tremendous perseverance,  
tremendous will. "I will drink the ocean," says the persevering soul, "at my  
will mountains will crumble up." Have that sort of energy, that sort of will,  
work hard, and you will reach the goal.   
 **Buddha** \-- Search with sincerity and persevere in your search. In the end  
you will find the Truth.   
 **Guru Nanak** \-- Dwell on Him day after day, That thou mergest  
imperceptibly in His Name.   
 **Jesus Christ** \-- And he told them a parable, to the effect that they  
ought always to pray and not lose heart. He said, "In a certain city there was  
a judge who neither feared God nor regarded man; and there was a widow in that  
city who kept coming to him and saying, ‘Vindicate me against my  
adversary.’ For a while he refused; but afterward he said to himself,  
‘Though I neither fear God nor regard man, yet because the widow bothers me,  
I will vindicate her, or she will wear me out by her continual coming’."   
 **Judaism** \-- Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the  
wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers;  
but his delight is the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and  
night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water, that yields its fruit in  
its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers.   
 **Krishna** \-- I am easy of access to that ever steadfast yogi who, O  
Partha, constantly meditates on Me and gives no thought to anything else.   
 **Mohammed** \-- Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave.   
 **Native American** \-- It may be that we shall receive no vision or message  
from the Great Spirit the first time that we lament [cry for a vision], yet we  
may try many times, for we should remember that Wakan-Tanka is always anxious  
to aid those who seek Him with a pure heart. But of course much depends on the  
nature of the person who cries for a vision, and upon the degree to which he  
has purified and prepared himself.   
 **Rama** \-- Keeping company with My devotees, always serving Me and My  
Bhaktas, fasting on Ekadasi, celebrating the festivals connected with Me,  
hearing, reading and expounding My glories, worshipping Me with continuous  
devotion, and singing of My excellences: If one follows these precepts daily,  
one gets pure devotion.   
 **Sankara** \-- The Atman that is Absolute Existence and Knowledge, can not  
be realized without constant practice. So one seeking Knowledge should  
meditate upon Brahman for the attainment of the desired goal.   
 **Vedas** \-- This Atman, resplendent and pure, whom the sinless sannyasins  
behold residing within the body, is attained by unceasing practice of  
truthfulness, austerity, right knowledge, and continence.   
 **Zoroaster** \-- Exert ceaselessly for the Glory of Ahura Mazda and for the  
good of the Universe.   
 **TRUST COMPLETELY IN GOD**   
 **Sri Ramakrishna** \-- What are you to do when you are placed in the world?  
Give up everything to Him, resign yourself to Him, and there will be no more  
trouble for you. Then you will come to know that everything is done by His  
will.   
**Holy Mother** \-- If anyone surrenders himself totally at his feet, the  
Master will see that everything is set right.   
**Swami Vivekananda** \-- Stand up for God; let the world go.   
**Buddha** \-- Surrender the grasping disposition of your selfishness, and you  
will attain to that sinless calm state of mind which conveys perfect peace,  
goodness, and wisdom.   
 **Guru Nanak** \-- He who gives himself up to His supreme will, wins the  
goal. No other action counts in achieving this end.   
 **Jesus Christ** \-- Therefore do not be anxious, saying, ‘What shall we  
eat?’ or, ‘What shall we drink?’ or, ‘What shall we wear?’ For the  
Gentiles seek all these things; and your heavenly Father knows that you need  
them all. But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these  
things shall be yours as well.   
 **Judaism** \-- The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want; he makes me lie  
down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters; he restores my soul.  
He leads me in paths of righteousness for his names sake.   
Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I fear no evil;  
for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me.   
 **Krishna** \-- Fixing your heart on Me, you will overcome every difficulty  
by My grace; but if from self-conceit you do not listen to Me, you shall  
perish utterly.   
 **Mohammed** \-- If you rely upon God as He ought to be relied upon, He will  
provide you as He provides the birds: they go out empty and hungry in the  
morning and come back big-bellied at eventide.   
 **Native American** \-- All things give thanks to You, O Wakan-Tanka, who are  
merciful, and who help us all. We ask all this of You because we know that You  
are the only One, and that You have power over all things!   
 **Rama** \-- Do not be overjoyed if you get a fortune, neither should you be  
dejected if you lose it. Your mind should be well balanced. I, Rama, am the  
life of all souls. Your mind should be fixed on Me alone.   
 **Sankara** \-- I know no Mantra, Yantra, or Stotra; I know no invocation or  
contemplation; I know no stories in your praise; I know not Mudras, not even  
how to cry out; I simply know that to run to you, Mother, destroys all  
distress.   
 **Vedas** \-- Children pursue outer pleasures and fall into the net of  
widespread death; but calm souls, having known what is unshakable Immortality,  
do not covet any uncertain thing in this world.   
 **Zoroaster** \-- Trust in God and do the Right.   
 **LOVE OF GOD IS ESSENTIAL**   
 **Sri Ramakrishna** \-- Unalloyed love of God is the essential thing. All  
else is unreal.   
**Holy Mother** \-- One’s love of God depends entirely upon one’s inner  
feelings. Love of God is the essential thing.   
 **Swami Vivekananda** \-- Giving up all other thoughts, with the whole mind  
day and night worship God. Thus being worshipped day and night, He reveals  
himself and makes His worshippers feel His presence.   
 **Buddha** \-- That which is most needed is a loving heart.   
 **Guru Nanak** \-- God is not pleased by obstinate penance nor by many  
religious garbs. He who fashioned the vessel of the body and poured into it,  
His ambrosial gifts, will only be satisfied with man’s love and service.   
 **Jesus Christ** \-- "Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law?"  
And he said to him, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and  
with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the great and first  
commandment."   
 **Judaism** \-- Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one; and you  
shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and  
with all your might.   
 **Krishna** \-- But the great-souled men, O Partha, who are endowed with the  
divine nature, worship Me with undisturbed minds, knowing that I am immutable  
and the origin of all beings. Ever glorifying Me, always striving with self-  
control, remaining firm in their vows, bowing before Me, they worship Me with  
love and unwavering steadiness.   
 **Mohammed** \-- Whoever loves to meet God, God loves to meet him.   
 **Native American** \-- Wakan-Tanka, help us to walk the sacred path of life  
without difficulty, with our minds and hearts continually fixed on You!   
 **Rama** \-- Devotion is the only thing that is essential to worship Me. It  
is impossible for a person to see Me by the merit of sacrifice, austerity,  
charity, or by the study of Vedas or by performing the scriptural rites, if he  
is devoid of devotion to Me.   
 **Sankara** \-- Among things conducive to liberation, devotion alone holds  
the supreme place. The seeking after one’s real nature is designated as  
devotion.   
 **Vedas** \-- Under a golden brilliance the face of Truth lies hidden. Do  
Thou, O Protector, withdraw this cover, that I, devoted to Truth alone, may  
realize it.   
 **Zoroaster** \-- As the Fire on the censer consumes sandalwood so let the  
Fire burning within you consume your heart with love for Ahura Mazda.   
\ _from ramakrishna.org_
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0)   
---  

## Re:[1] Love of God  
Author: Subramanian.R       Date: October 05, 2010, 05:59:20 PM  
---  
Dear silentgreen,   
I am seeing your post after some long break. It is a nice collections   
of sayings of various saints. I wonder how saints and Jnanis can   
tell the same thing, as if they were school boys copying from each   
others' notebooks. Because the Truth is One. Satyam adviitiyam.   
Bhagavan Ramana has said: How ever bad one might be do not dislike him. In  
fact both likes and dislikes must be eschewed. Ok. Dislikes should be  
eschewed, but why likes too? The answer is   
if you like one too much, then one day, you will start disliking him   
for even a small error or mistake. So, likes and dislikes - both should be  
eschewed. Then how to deal with another? Treat him   
as your own Self. Then, there will be no occasion to dislikes and likes. The  
Self is only one without second. Neither dislike because there is no one  
dislike and nor likes because there is no one to like. Be as You are. Treat  
others as Your Self.   
Bhagavan Ramana has said: What is love of god? How to love   
God? If there is a god to be loved, then you are the lover of that God. There  
is no one other than God. Again, God is Truth and   
Satyam advitiyam. Then what can one do with God during the period of Sadhana.  
You love him, to the extent that you totally surrender your self [your little  
self - Jiva bodham or Jiva ahandhai in Tamizh] to Him. He says in Sri  
Arunachala Akshara Mana Maalai, Verses: No. 8: I came to You to gulp you. But I became food for your swallowing! My  
Jiva bodham is consumed., and what remains is only   
You and no more me.   
No.77: I came with my self pride - jiva bodham. You destroyed my   
self pride and made me without any personality. There is no little   
I and there is only I-I.   
Arunachala Siva.**
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0)   
---  

## Re:[2] Love of God  
Author: Subramanian.R       Date: October 05, 2010, 06:09:05 PM  
---  
Bhagavan Ramana says: The scriptures talk about Iswara Darsanam.   
What is this Darsanam of God? If you have darshan of God, it means   
you are the seer and he is the seen. It is all only in mental plane.   
To see God is really to become food for him. There is no more seer.   
There is only God, the One without a second. Your Jiva bodham is   
consumed and He alone remains. [Sad Darsanam, Verse 21.]   
He is giving Light to your intellect, buddhi. He is also residing in   
your buddhi. So you make your buddhi to remain quiscent in the   
Self within. Then only you will have the darsanam of God or the Self within.  
The intellect can never size up the Self or God. [S.D. V/22]   
Arunachala Siva.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0)   
---  

## Re:[3] Love of God  
Author: ramana_maharshi     Date: October 06, 2010, 12:56:49 AM  
---  
nice collection silentgreen garu.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0)   
---  

## Re:[4] Love of God  
Author: silentgreen         Date: October 06, 2010, 09:05:34 AM  
---  
Dear Subramanian.R and prasanth_ramana_maharshi,   
Day by day I am realizing that Love of God is the one essential thing. As long  
as the ego is there, there is the lover and the beloved. When the right time  
comes and God dissolves the ego, there is only Love.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0)   
---  

## Re:[5] Love of God  
Author: Subramanian.R       Date: October 06, 2010, 03:34:41 PM  
---  
Dear silentgreen,   
The dissolving of the ego in God or the Self is Self Realization.   
But does one's life end with that? No. Jnanis like Bhagavan Ramana   
had lived long years in that state of self realization. Then, during   
those periods how do the Jnanis live?   
Arunachala! That best of devotees, who, taking Thee as the sole   
refuge, and having surrendered his all unto Thee, behold with a   
Pure Heart, all the perceived world as Thine Own Form. He loves   
Thee as none other than His own Self, mingles non-dually in Thee   
and, getting immersed in Thy Form of Bliss gains mukti [videha   
kaivalyam] and triumphs.   
[Sri Arunachala Pancharatnam Verse 5]   
Bhagavan Ramana told Dr. Syed: "See yourself first and then see   
the whole world as the Self. If you consider yourself as the body,   
the world appears to be external. If you are the Self, he world appears as  
Brahman." [Talks No. 273]   
Arunachala Siva.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0)   
---  

## Re:[6] Love of God  
Author: silentgreen         Date: October 19, 2010, 04:10:10 PM  
---  
M: "Under what conditions does one see God?"   
Ramakrishna: "Cry to the Lord with an intensely yearning heart and you will  
certainly see Him. People shed a whole jug of tears for wife and children.  
They swim in tears for money. But who weeps for God? Cry to Him with a real  
cry."   
The Master sang:  _Cry to your Mother Syama, with a real cry, O mind!   
And how can She hold Herself from you?   
How can Syama stay away?   
How can your Mother Kali hold Herself away?   
O mind, if you are in earnest, bring Her an offering   
Of bel-leaves and hibiscus flowers;   
Lay at Her feet your offering   
And with it mingle the fragrant sandal-paste of Love._   
Continuing, he said: "Longing is like the rosy dawn. After the dawn out comes  
the sun. Longing is followed by the vision of God.   
"God reveals Himself to a devotee who feels drawn to Him by the combined force  
of these three attractions: the attraction of worldly possessions for the  
worldly man, the child's attraction for its mother, and the husband's  
attraction for the chaste wife. If one feels drawn to Him by the combined  
force of these three attractions, then through it one can attain Him.   
"The point is, to love God even as the mother loves her child, the chaste wife  
her husband, and the worldly man his wealth. Add together these three forces  
of love, these three powers of attraction, and give it all to God. Then you  
will certainly see Him.   
"It is necessary to pray to Him with a longing heart. The kitten knows only  
how to call its mother, crying, 'Mew, mew!' It remains satisfied wherever its  
mother puts it. And the mother cat puts the kitten sometimes in the kitchen,  
sometimes on the floor, and sometimes on the bed. When it suffers it cries  
only, 'Mew, mew!' That's all it knows. But as soon as the mother hears this  
cry, wherever she may be; she comes to the kitten."   
\ _Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna_
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0)   
---  

## Re:[7] Love of God  
Author: Subramanian.R       Date: October 31, 2010, 10:54:22 AM  
---  
Dear silentgreen,   
Yes. All Jnanis have said the same thing. Guru Vachaka Kovai,   
Verse 652 of Muruganar also highlights this.   
Only when the Self, the truth of love, is realized will the powerful   
entangled knot of life be untied. Only when the supremacy of love   
merges with you has the blessing of liberation been attained.   
This is the heart of all truth declaring religions.   
Bhagavan Ramana says in Letters from Sri Ramanasramam, entry   
dated 26th April 1948: Love itself is the actual form of God. If by saying, 'I do not love   
this. I do not love that.' you reject all things, that which remains is  
Swarupa i.e innate Self. That is pure bliss. Call it pure bliss, God, Atma  
or what you will. That is devotion. That is everything. Whereas the Self is  
love, in other words God is love.'   
Saint Manikkavachagar says: My jiva is a lie. My heart is a lie. But, can I not get you if I   
weep for you?   
Anbe Sivam, Love is Siva, says Saint Tirumoolar.   
Bhagavan Ramana says in Verse 104 of Sri Arunachala Akshara   
Mana Maalai: Let me be a loving servant of the devotees of those devotees   
who hear your name with love, O Arunachala!   
Arunachala Siva.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160707005403/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=6250.0)   
---  

