--- 
title: Thiru Kural   
tags: silentgreen Subramanian.R  
---  
## Thiru Kural  
Author: silentgreen         Date: April 15, 2010, 11:45:56 AM  
---  
**God:**   
1\. "A" is the first and source of all the letters.   
Even so is God Primordial the first and source of all the world.   
2\. What has learning profited a man, if it has not led him   
To worship the Good Feet of Him who is pure knowledge itself?   
3\. The Supreme dwells within the lotus of the heart. Those who reach   
His Splendid Feet dwell endearingly within unearthly realms.   
4\. Draw near the Feet of Him who is free of desire and aversion.   
And live forever free of suffering.   
5\. Good and bad, delusion's dual deeds, do not cannot cling   
Those who delight in praising the immutable, worshipful One.   
6\. A long and joyous life rewards those who remain firmly   
On the faultless path of Him who controls the five senses.   
7\. They alone dispel the mind's distress   
Who take refuge at the Feet of the Incomparable One.   
8\. They alone can cross life's other oceans who take refuge   
At the Feet of the Gracious One, Himself an ocean of virtue.   
9\. The head which cannot bow before the Feet of the Possessor   
Of eight infinite powers is like the senses lacking the power to perceive.   
10\. The boundless ocean of births can be crossed,   
But not without intimate union with Infinity's Holy Feet.   
 **Knowledge of Truth:**   
1\. The delusion which mistakes the unreal for the Real   
Is the genesis of woeful births.   
2\. For those of undimmed perception, free from delusion,   
Darkness departs and rapture rushes in.   
3\. To those who have dispelled all doubt and perceive Truth,   
Heaven is nearer than earth.   
4\. All knowledge acquired through the five senses is worthless   
To those without knowledge of truth.   
5\. In everything of every kind whatsoever,   
Wisdom perceives Truth in that thing.   
6\. Those who find Divine Truth in this world   
Follow a path which never comes back to this world.   
7\. Those who think with certitude and ponder well that which is,   
Need never think of being born again.   
8\. Banishing the folly of rebirth and thus beholding   
Perfections True Being - that is wisdom.   
9\. The ruinous griefs that he is yet to suffer will not cleave to him who,   
Renouncing other supports, realizes life's true Support.   
10\. Desire, detesting and delusion - the annihilation of these three names   
Is the annihilation of suffering endured.   
 **Charity:**   
1\. Giving to the poor is true charity.   
All other giving expects a recompense.   
2\. Though men may declare it a good path, gathering gifts is bad.   
Though they decree it denies one heaven, giving gifts is good.   
3\. Men of good birth graciously give,   
Never uttering the wretched excuse, "I have nothing."   
4\. How unpleasant a beggar's pleading can become,   
Until one sees his face, so sweetly pleased.   
5\. Great indeed is the power acquired through austerity to endure hunger.   
But greater still is the power of those who relieve the hunger of others.   
6\. Relieving the ravaging hunger of the poor   
Is the most secure use of a rich man's wealth.   
7\. The fiery scourge called hunger never touches   
The man who shares his daily meal with others.   
8\. Is it because they are unaware of the joys of giving   
That hard-hearted men waste their wealth by hoarding it?   
9\. More bitter than even a beggar's bread is the   
Meal of the miser who hoards wealth and eats alone.   
10\. There is nothing more bitter than death;   
Yet even death is sweet when charitable giving is impossible.   
 **Duty:**   
1\. The benevolent expect no return for their dutiful giving.   
How can the world ever repay the rain cloud?   
2\. It is to meet the needs of the deserving   
That the worthy labor arduously to acquire wealth.   
3\. Of all duties, benevolence is unequaled in this world,   
And even in celestial realms.   
4\. He who understands his duty to society truly lives.   
All others shall be counted among the dead.   
5\. The wealth of the world-loving wise man   
May be likened to a well-stocked village water tank.   
6\. Resemble a fruit tree ripening in the heart of a village.   
7\. In the hands of a benevolent man,   
Wealth is like a medicinal tree whose healing gifts help all.   
8\. Those who deeply know duty do not neglect giving,   
Even in their own unprosperous season.   
9\. The benevolent man considers himself poor only   
When he is unable to render his accustomed service to humanity.   
10\. Were it said that loss of wealth is the price of benevolence,   
Such loss is worth selling one's self to procure.   
 **Renunciation**   
1\. Whatsoever a man has renounced,   
From the sorrow born of that he has freed himself.   
2\. After a man has renounced, he enjoys the many true things in this   
World. Let men desiring that renounce in time.   
3\. The five senses must be subdued   
And every desire simultaneously surrendered.   
4\. The mendicant's poverty permits not a single possession,   
For possessions draws him back into delusion.   
5\. What are life's petty attachments to the man who seeks severance   
From future births, when even his body is a burden?   
6\. He who slays the conceit which clamors "I" and "mine"   
Will enter a realm above the celestials' world.   
7\. If one clings to his attachments, refusing to let go,   
Sorrows will not let go their grip on him.   
8\. Those who renounce totally reach the highest peak;   
The rest remain ensnared in delusions net.   
9\. Birth ceases when all attachments are severed;   
Otherwise, one beholds unceasingly the transitoriness of life.   
10\. Attach yourself to Him who is free from all attachments.   
Bind yourself to that bond in order that all other bonds may be broken.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20100706103632/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5005.msg13992](http://web.archive.org/web/20100706103632/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5005.msg13992)   
---  

## Re:[1] Thiru Kural  
Author: silentgreen         Date: April 16, 2010, 10:41:58 AM  
---  
**Truthfulness:**   
1\. What is truthfulness? It is the speaking of words   
Which are entirely free from harmful effects.   
2\. Even falsehood is of the nature of truth,   
If it gives good results free from fault.   
3\. Let a man not speak as truth what he knows to be false,   
For his conscience will scorch him when he has lied.   
4\. He who lives truly in his own heart,   
Truly lives in the hearts of all people.   
5\. Those who speak only truth from the heart   
Surpass even penitents and philanthropists.   
6\. All other virtues flow from it effortlessly.   
7\. Not lying, and merely not lying, is beneficial   
For those who can't practice and won't practice other virtues.   
8\. Water is sufficient to cleanse the body,   
But only truthfulness will purify the mind.   
9\. Not all lamps are effective lamps.   
The lamp of nonlying is the wise man's lamp.   
10\. Among all great truths which we have ever beheld,   
Not one can equal the goodness of veracity.   
 **Purity of Acti  
DateTime: 1\. Good friendships bring wealth to a man,   
But goodness of action fulfills his every desire.   
2\. Actions which bring fame but no real benefit   
Are to be avoided always.   
3\. Declaring that their future will be brighter,   
Men desist from deeds that darken glory's light.   
4\. However troubled the times, men of unperturbable perception   
Never commit shamful or sordid deeds.   
5\. Do nothing that would make you regret, "What have I done!"   
However, do not remain regretful if regretable deeds do occur.   
6\. Though he must behold his own mother's hunger,   
Let a man refrain from deeds that wise men condemn.   
7\. The worst poverty of worthy men is far better   
Than wealth amassed by improper means.   
8\. Even when accomplished, forbidden deeds afflict sorrow   
On those who seek after, rather than shun, them.   
9\. What is gained by tears will go by tears. In the end, goodness   
Reaps many good things, though it begins with loss.   
10\. Protecting the country by wrongly garnered wealth   
Is like preserving water in an unbaked pot of clay.   
 **Perseverance:**   
1\. Never say in weakness, "This task is too difficult,"   
For perseverance will give the ability to accomplish it.   
2\. Beware of leaving any work undone, for the world   
Will abandon those who abandon their work unfinished.   
3\. The pride of profuse giving dwells only   
With the dignity of diligent effort.   
4\. Like the swordsmanship of an effimate man,   
The philanthropy of those who avoid hard work will end in failure.   
5\. He who prefers work to pleasure supports his family   
Like a pillar, sweeping away their every sad sorrow.   
6\. Perseverance creates prosperity,   
And the lack of it produces poverty.   
7\. They say the black ogress called Misfortune lurks in laziness,   
While goddess Fortune lingers in the laboring toils of active men.   
8\. To be devoid of good fortune is no one's disgrace.   
But shame belongs to those destitute of knowledge and tenacity.   
9\. Though destiny decrees one's deeds will fail,   
The wages for determined work are always paid.   
10\. Those who strive with tireless exertion and remain undaunted   
Will see the backside of retreating Fate.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20100706103632/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5005.msg13992](http://web.archive.org/web/20100706103632/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5005.msg13992)   
---  

## Re:[2] Thiru Kural  
Author: Subramanian.R       Date: April 16, 2010, 10:53:49 AM  
---  
Dear silentgreen,   
I am happy to see your posting of translations of Tiru KuRal.   
In my young days, due to school curicullam and due to my   
father's insistence, I read Tiru kuRal. I know many verses in   
my memory even today. Tiruvalluvar, the author has not said   
anything about Moksham. He has covered only Dharma, Wealth   
by rightful means and Kama, love and marriage. The reason is   
if one could rightfully follow the guidance for these three requirements,   
one would attain liberation. Nevertheless, I do not agree with this   
theory. But Dharma, Artha and Kama are essential in life, no doubt.   
Again, Tiruvalluvar speaks about God, in a very tacit manner.   
From the first ten verses of his book, one can never guess, whether   
he was a Saivite,a Vaishnava or a Buddhist or a Jain. The verses   
are quite general but does not indicate any specific god.   
Purathooimai neeran amaiyum   
Ahathooimai vaymaial kana perum.   
The outward purity comes about through water, i.e bath.   
The inward purity comes about only through Truthfulness.   
One cannot say this in more brevity.   
Bhagavan Ramana said the same thing in His teachings.   
Thanks for the excellent translation.   
Arunachala Siva.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20100706103632/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5005.msg13992](http://web.archive.org/web/20100706103632/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5005.msg13992)   
---  

## Re:[3] Thiru Kural  
Author: silentgreen         Date: April 16, 2010, 03:01:53 PM  
---  
Dear Subramanian.R,   
I got the translation of the Thirukural from the internet. It is difficult to  
say who is the original translator. Might have been circulating for long.   
Thiruvalluvar's verses, I found, are mainly on morality, the foundation of  
life. He did not dive into any particular spiritual practice. It is as if they  
are the verses of life illustrating the sacredness of life...replete with the  
message, "Live Life considering it to be sacred."
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20100706103632/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5005.msg13992](http://web.archive.org/web/20100706103632/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5005.msg13992)   
---  

## Re:[4] Thiru Kural  
Author: Subramanian.R       Date: April 16, 2010, 03:27:30 PM  
---  
Dear silentgreen,   
It is a good translation. No problem.   
There is a story about one verse of Tiru KuraL. It is a book, where   
even one word cannot be changed as in Bhgagavan's ULLadu Narpadu and other  
works.   
There was a Jesuit father in Madurai during British times and such   
missionary heads learned Tamil thoroughly to teach Tamilians in their own  
tongue. Some of these guys read Tamil works like Tiru KuraL and Tiruvachakam.   
One just Jesuit father read the KuraL, verse, saying: A person's worthiness or unworthiness is known   
By the things that had been left by him.*   
(*after death)   
The Jesuit father saw the word "Eccham" in the second line,   
meaning "the remaining things" The first line starts as   
Thakkar Thakavilar... meaning worthiness or unworthiness....   
The Jesuit monk thought that "Thakkar" should go with "MakkaL"   
in the second line for the purpose of alliteration. So he changed   
Eccham (which is not a good alliteration) to Makkal (means sons/   
daughters).   
He showed it to Sri Thyagarja Mudaliar, a famous Tamil scholar   
and an authority on Tiru KuraL and Tiruvachakam and asked about   
his 'changes' in Tiru KuraL.   
Thyagaraja Mudaliar saw it and hit his own head a few times! He   
said: How can you change like this? Why Tiruvalluvar did not   
put Makkal instead of Eccham? Do you know?   
A person's worthiness WILL NOT BE KNOWN BY HIS SONS.   
We have got many such instances in this world. Hiranyakashyap   
got Prahlada. Sunil Dutt got Sanjay Dutt! There are many such   
examples. So this word Makkal does not indicate the universal   
truth. But Eccham, the remains - tell you the real truth. Chozha   
Kings built 70 Siva Temples. Manikkavachagar left Tiruvachakam.   
Azhwars left 4000 Divine Songs. Bhagavan Ramana left ULLadu   
Narpadu. Sri Sankara left Viveka Choodamani. British left a   
partitioned India. Osama Bil Laden left burnt twin towers.   
So Eccham, "the remains" is a better word, and Tiruvalluvar knew   
it. He did not care merely for alliteration!   
Thyagaraja Mudaliar started crying, about the misfortune for   
Tamil and Tiruvalluvar. The Jesuit father went back quietly!   
Arunachala Siva.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20100706103632/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5005.msg13992](http://web.archive.org/web/20100706103632/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=5005.msg13992)   
---  

