--- 
title: Devi   
tags: silentgreen  
---  
## Excerpts from Hatha Yoga Pradipika  
Author: silentgreen         Date: May 10, 2010, 04:43:38 PM  
---  
**Excerpts from Hatha Yoga Pradipika**   
 **On Samadhi** : 1\. Salutation to the Guru, the dispenser of happiness to all, appearing as  
Nada, Vindu and Kali. One who is devoted to him, obtains the highest bliss.   
2\. Now I will describe a regular method of attaining to Samadhi, which  
destroys death, is the means for obtaining happiness, and gives the  
Brahmananda.   
3-4. Raja Yoga, Samadhi, Unmani, Manonmani, Amaratwa, Laya, Tatwa, Sunya,  
Asunya, Parama Pada, Amanasska, Adwaitama, Niralamba, Niranjana, Jiwana Mukti,  
Sahaja, Turya, are all synonymous.   
5\. As salt being dissolved in water becomes one with it, so when Atma and  
mind become one, it is called Samadhi.   
6\. When the Prana becomes lean (vigourless) and the mind becomes absorbed,  
then their becoming equal is called Samadhi.   
7\. This equality and oneness of the self and the ultra self, when all  
Samkalpas cease to exist, is called Samadhi.   
8\. Or, who can know the true greatness of the Raja Yoga. Knowledge, mukti,  
condition, and Siddhis can be learnt by instructions from a guru alone.   
9\. Indifference to worldly enjoyments is very difficult to obtain, and  
equally difficult is the knowledge of the Realities to obtain. It is very  
difficult to get the condition of Samadhi, without the favor of a true guru.   
10\. By means of various postures and different Kumbhakas, when the great  
power (Kundali) awakens, then the Prana becomes absorbed in Sunya (Samadhi).   
11\. The Yogi whose sakti has awakened, and who has renounced all actions,  
attains to the condition of Samadhi, without any effort.   
12\. When the Prana flows in the Susumna, and the mind has entered sunya, then  
the Yogi is free from the effects of Karmas.   
13\. O immortal one (that is, the yogi who has attained to the condition of  
Samadhi), I salute thee! Even death itself, into whose mouth the whole of this  
moveable and immovable world has fallen, has been conquered by thee.   
14\. Amaroli, Vajroli and Saholi are accomplished when the mind becomes calm  
and Prana has entered the middle channel.   
15\. How can it be possible to get knowledge, so long as the Prana is living  
and the mind has not died? No one else can get moksa except one who can make  
one's Prana and mind latent.   
16\. Always living in a good locality and having known the secret of the  
Susumna, which has a middle course, and making the Vayu move in it, (the Yogi)  
should restrain the Vayu in the Brahma randhra.   
17\. Time, in the form of night and day, is made by the sun and the moon. That  
the Susumna devours this time (death) even, is a great secret.   
18\. In this body there are 72,000 openings of Nadis; of these, the Susumna,  
which has the Sambhavi Sakti in it, is the only important one, the rest are  
useless.   
19\. The Vayu should be made to enter the Susumna without restraint by him who  
has practiced the control of breathing and has awakened the Kundali by the  
(gastric) fire.   
20\. The Prana, flowing through the Susumna, brings about the condition of  
manonmani; other practices are simply futile for the Yogi.   
21\. By whom the breathing has been controlled, by him the activities of the  
mind also have been controlled; and, conversely, by whom the activities of the  
mind have been controlled, by him the breathing also has been controlled.   
22\. There are two causes of the activities of the mind; (1) Vasana (desires)  
and (2) the respiration (the Prana). Of these, the destruction of the one is  
the destruction of both.   
23\. Breathing is lessened when the mind becomes absorbed, and the mind  
becomes absorbed when the Prana is restrained.   
24\. Both the mind and the breath are united together, like milk and water;  
and both of them are equal in their activities. Mind begins its activities  
where there is the breath, and the Prana begins its activities where there is  
the mind.   
25\. By the suspension of the one, therefore, comes the suspension of the  
other, and by the operations of the one are brought about the operations of  
the other. When they are present, the Idriyas (the senses) remain engaged in  
their proper functions, and when they become latent then there is moksa.   
26\. By nature, Mercury and mind are unsteady: there is nothing in the world  
which cannot be accomplished when these are made steady.   
27\. O Parvati! Mercury and breathing, when made steady, destroy diseases and  
the dead himself comes to life (by their means). By their (proper) control,  
moving in the air is attained.   
28\. The breathing is calmed when the mind becomes steady and calm; and hence  
the preservation of bindu. The preservation of this latter makes the satwa  
established in the body.   
29\. Mind is the master of the senses, and the breath is the master of the  
mind. The breath in its turn is subordinate to the laya (absorption), and that  
laya depends on the nada.   
30\. This very laya is what is called moksa, or, being a sectarian, you may  
not call it moksa; but when the mind becomes absorbed, a sort of ecstasy is  
experienced.   
31\. By the suspension of respiration and the annihilation of the enjoyments  
of the senses, when the mind becomes devoid of all the activities and remains  
changeless, then the Yogi attains to the Laya Stage.   
32\. When the thoughts and activities are destroyed, then the Laya Stage is  
produced, to describe which is beyond the power of speech, being known by  
self-experience alone.   
33\. They often speak of Laya; but what is meant by it? Laya is simply the  
forgetting of the objects of senses when the Vasanas (desires) do not rise  
into existence again.   
 **The Sambhavi Mudra** : 34\. The Vedas and the Sastras are like ordinary public women. Sambhavi Mudra  
is the one, which is secluded like a respectable lady.   
35\. Aiming at Brahman inwardly, while keeping the sight directed to the  
external objects, without blinking the eyes, is called Sambhavi Mudra, hidden  
in the Vedas and the Sastras.   
36\. When the Yogi remains inwardly attentive to the Brahman, keeping the mind  
and the Prana absorbed, and the sight steady, as if seeing everything while in  
reality seeing nothing outside, below, or above, verily then it is called the  
Sambhavi Mudra, which is learnt by the favor of a guru. Whatever, wonderful,  
Sunya or Asunya is perceived, is to be regarded as the manifestation of that  
great Sambhu (Siva).   
37\. The two states, the Sambhavi and the Khechari, are different because of  
their seats (being the heart and the space between the eyebrows respectively);  
but both cause happiness, for the mind becomes absorbed in the Chita-sukha-  
Rupa-atmana which is void.   
 **The Unmani** : 38\. Fix the gaze on the light (seen on the tip of the nose) and raise the  
eyebrows a little, with the mind contemplating as before (in the Sambhavi  
Mudras, that is, inwardly thinking of Brahma, but apparently looking outside).  
This will create the Unmani avastha at once.   
 **The Taraka** : 39\. Some are devoted to the Vedas, some to Nigama, while others are enwrapt  
in Logic, but none knows the value of this mudra, which enables one to cross  
the ocean of existence.   
40\. With steady calm mind and half closed eyes, fixed on the tip of the nose,  
stopping the Ida and the Pingala without blinking, he who can see the light  
which is the all, the seed, the entire brilliant, great Tatwama, approaches  
Him, who is the great object. What is the use of more talk?   
41\. One should not meditate on the Linga (i.e., Atman) in the day (i.e.,  
while Surya or Pingala is working) or at night (when Ida is working), but  
should always contemplate after restraining both.   
 **The Khechari** : 42\. When the air has ceased to move in the right and the left nostrils, and  
has begun to flow in the middle path, then Khechari Mudra can be accomplished  
there. There is no doubt of this.   
43\. If the Prana can be drawn into the Sunya (Susumna), which is between the  
Ida and the Pingala, and made motionless there, then the Khechari Mudra can  
truly become steady there.   
44\. That Mudra is called Khechari which is performed in the supportless space  
between the Surya and the Chandra (the Ida and the Pingala) and called the  
Vyoma Chakra.   
45\. The Khechari which causes the stream to flow from the Chandra (Soma) is  
the beloved of Siva. The incomparable divine Susumna should be closed by the  
tongue drawn back.   
46\. It can be closed from the front also (by stopping the movements of the  
Prana), and then surely it becomes the Khechari. By practice, this Khechari  
leads to Unmani.   
47\. The seat of Siva is between the eyebrows, and the mind becomes absorbed  
there. This condition (in which the mind is thus absorbed) is known as Turya,  
and death has no access there.   
48\. The Khechari should be practiced till there is Yoga-nidra (Samadhi). One  
who has induced Yoga-nidra, cannot fall a victim to death.   
49\. Freeing the mind from all thoughts and thinking of nothing, one should  
sit firmly like a pot in the space (surrounded and filled with the ether).   
50\. As with air, in and out of the body, remains unmoved, so the breath with  
mind becomes steady in its place (i.e., in Brahma randhra).   
51\. By thus practicing, night and day, the breathing is brought under  
control, and, as the practice increases, the mind becomes calm and steady.   
52\. By rubbing the body over with Amrita (exuding from the moon), from head  
to foot, one gets Mahakaya, i.e., great strength and energy.   
 **End of the Khechari** : 53\. Placing the mind into the Kundalini, and getting the later into the mind,  
by looking upon the Buddhi (intellect) with mind (reflexively), the Param Pada  
(Brahma) should be obtained.   
54\. Keep the atma inside the Kha (Brahma) and place Brahma inside your atma.  
Having made everything pervaded with Kha (Brahma), think of nothing else.   
55\. One should become void in and void out, and void like a pot in the space.  
Full in and full outside, like a jar in the ocean.   
56\. He should be neither of his inside nor of his outside world; and, leaving  
all thoughts, he should think of nothing.   
57\. The whole of this world and all the schemes of the mind are but the  
creations of thought. Discarding these thoughts and taking leave of all  
conjectures, O Rama! obtain peace.   
58\. As camphor disappears in fire, and rock salt in water, so the mind united  
with the atma loses its identity.   
59\. When the knowable, and the knowledge, are both destroyed equally, then  
there is no second way (i.e., Duality is destroyed).   
60\. All this movable and immovable world is mind. When the mind has attained  
to the unmani avastha, there is no dwaita (from the absence of the working of  
the mind).   
61\. Mind disappears by removing the knowable, and, on its disappearance, atma  
only remains behind.   
62\. The high-souled Acharyas (Teachers) of yore gained experience in the  
various methods of Samadhi themselves, and then they preached them to others.   
63\. Salutations to Thee, O Susumna, to Thee O Kundalini, to Thee O Sudha,  
born of Chandra, to Thee O Manonmani! to Thee O great power, energy and the  
intelligent spirit.   
64\. I will describe now the practice of anahata nada, as propounded by  
Goraksa Natha, for the benefit of those who are unable to understand the  
principles of knowledge -- a method, which is liked by the ignorant also.   
65\. Adinatha propounded 1 1/4 crore methods of trance, and they are all  
extant. Of these, the hearing of the anahata nada is the only one, the chief,  
in my opinion.   
66\. Sitting with Mukta asana and with the Sambhavi Mudra, the Yogi should  
hear the sound inside his right ear, with collected mind.   
67\. The ears, the eyes, the nose, and the mouth should be closed and then the  
clear sound is heard in the passage of the Susumna which has been cleansed of  
all its impurities.   
68\. In all the Yogas, there are four states: (1) arambha or the preliminary,  
(2) Ghata, or the state of a jar, (3) Parichaya (known), (4) nispatti  
(consummate).   
 **Arambha Avastha** : 69\. When the Brahma granthi (in the heart) is pierced through by Pranayama,  
then a sort of happiness is experienced in the vacuum of the heart, and the  
anahat sounds, like various tinkling sounds of ornaments, are heard in the  
body.   
70\. In the arambha, a Yogi's body becomes divine, glowing, healthy, and emits  
a divine smell. The whole of his heart becomes void.   
 **The Ghata Avastha** : 71\. In the second stage, the airs are united into one and begun moving in the  
middle channel. The Yogi's posture becomes firm, and he becomes wise like a  
god.   
72\. By this means the Visnu knot (in the throat) is pierced which is  
indicated by highest pleasure experienced, and then the Bheri sound (like the  
beating of a kettle drum) is evolved in the vacuum in the throat.   
 **The Parichaya Avastha** : 73\. In the third stage, the sound of a drum is known to arise in the Sunya  
between the eyebrows, and then the Vayu goes to the Mahasunya, which is the  
home of all the siddhis.   
74\. Conquering, then, the pleasures of the mind, ecstasy is spontaneously  
produced which is devoid of evils, pains, old age, disease, hunger and sleep.   
75\. When the Rudra granthi is pierced, and the air enters the seat of the  
Lord (the space between the eyebrows), then the perfect sound like that of a  
flute is produced.   
76\. The union of the mind and the sound is called the Raja-Yoga. The (real)  
Yogi becomes the creator and destroyer of the universe, like God.   
77\. Perpetual Happiness is achieved by this; I do not care if the mukti be  
not attained. This happiness, resulting from absorption (in Brahma), is  
obtained by means of Raja- Yoga.   
78\. Those who are ignorant of the Raja-Yoga and practice only the Hatha-Yoga,  
will, in my opinion, waste their energy fruitlessly.   
79\. Contemplation on the space between the eyebrows is, in my opinion, best  
for accomplishing soon the Unmani state. For people of small intellect, it is  
a very easy method for obtaining perfection in the Raja-Yoga. The Laya  
produced by nada, at once gives experience (of spiritual powers).   
80\. The happiness which increases in the hearts of Yogiswaras, who have  
gained success in Samadhi by means of attention to the nada, is beyond  
description, and is known to Sri Guru Natha alone.   
81\. The sound which a muni hears by closing his ears with his fingers, should  
be heard attentively, till the mind becomes steady in it.   
82\. By practicing with this nada, all other external sounds are stopped. The  
Yogi becomes happy by overcoming all distractions within 15 days.   
83\. In the beginning, the sounds heard are of great variety and very loud;  
but, as the practice increases, they become more and more subtle.   
84\. In the first stage, the sounds are surging, thundering like the beating  
of kettle drums and jingling ones. In the intermediate stage, they are like  
those produced by conch, Mridanga, bells, &c.   
85\. In the last stage, the sounds resemble those from tinklets, flute, Vina,  
bee, &c. These various kinds of sounds are heard as being produced in the  
body.   
86\. Though hearing loud sounds like those of thunder, kettle drums, &c., one  
should practice with the subtle sounds also.   
87\. Leaving the loudest, taking up the subtle one, and leaving the subtle  
one, taking up the loudest, thus practicing, the distracted mind does not  
wander elsewhere.   
88\. Wherever the mind attaches itself first, it becomes steady there; and  
when it becomes absorbed in it.   
89\. Just as a bee, drinking sweet juice, does not care for the smell of the  
flower; so the mind, absorbed in the nada, does not desire the objects of  
enjoyment.   
90\. The mind, like an elephant habituated to wander in the garden of  
enjoyments, is capable of being controlled by the sharp goad of anahata nada.   
91\. The mind, captivated in the snare of nada, gives up all its activity;  
and, like a bird with clipped wings, becomes calm at once.   
92\. Those desirous of the kingdom of Yoga, should take up the practice of  
hearing the anahata nada, with mind collected and free from all cares.   
93\. Nada is the snare for catching the mind; and, when it is caught like a  
deer, it can be killed also like it.   
94\. Nada is the bolt of the stable door for the horse (the minds of the  
Yogis). A Yogi should determine to practice constantly in the hearing of the  
nada sounds.   
95\. Mind gets the properties of calcined mercury. When deprived of its  
unsteadiness it is calcined, combined with the sulphur of nada, and then it  
roams like it in the supportless akasa or Brahma.   
96\. The mind is like a serpent, forgetting all its unsteadiness by hearing  
the nada, it does not run away anywhere.   
97\. The fire, catching firewood, is extinguished along with it (after burning  
it up); and so the mind also, working with the nada, becomes latent along with  
it.   
98\. The antahkarana (mind), like a deer, becomes absorbed and motionless on  
hearing the sound of bells, etc.; and then it is very easy for an expert  
archer to kill it.   
99\. The knowable interpenetrates the anahata sound when it is heard, and the  
mind interpenetrates the knowable. The mind becomes absorbed there, which is  
the seat of the all-pervading, almighty Lord.   
100\. So long as the sounds continue, there is the idea of akasa. When they  
disappear, then it is called Para Brahma, Paramatmana.   
101\. Whatever is heard in the form of nada, is the sakti (power). That which  
is formless, the final state of the Tatwas, is the Parameswara.   
102\. All the methods of Hatha are meant for gaining success in Raja-Yoga;  
for, the man, who is well-established in the Raja-Yoga, overcomes death.   
103\. Tatwa is the seed, Hatha the field; and Indifference (Vairagya) the  
water. By the action of these three, the creeper Unmani thrives very rapidly.   
104\. All the accumulations of sins are destroyed by practicing always with  
the nada; and the mind and the airs do certainly become latent in the  
colorless (Paramatmana).   
105\. Such a one does not hear the noise of the conch and Dundubhi. Being in  
the Unmani avastha, his body becomes like a piece of wood.   
106\. There is no doubt, such a Yogi becomes free from all states, from all  
cares, and remains like one dead.   
107\. He is not devoured by death, is not bound by his actions. The Yogi who  
is engaged in Samadhi is overpowered by none.   
108\. The Yogi, engaged in Samadhi, feels neither smell, taste, color, touch,  
sound, nor is conscious of his own self.   
109\. He whose mind is neither sleeping, waking, remembering, destitute of  
memory, disappearing nor appearing, is liberated.   
110\. He feels neither heat, cold, pain, pleasure, respect nor disrespect.  
Such a Yogi is absorbed in Samadhi.   
111\. He who, though awake, appears like one sleeping, and is without  
inspiration and expiration, is certainly free.   
112\. The Yogi, engaged in Samadhi, cannot be killed by any instrument, and is  
beyond the controlling powers of beings. He is beyond the reach of  
incantations and charms.   
113\. As long as the Prana does not enter and flow in the middle channel and  
the vindu does not become firm by the control of the movements of the Prana;  
as long as the mind does not assume the form of Brahma without any effort in  
contemplation, so long all the talk of knowledge and wisdom is merely the  
nonsensical babbling of a mad man.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20190708065931/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=2b96613f4ace36b26fe45da04a54761f&topic=5303.0;prev_next=next](http://web.archive.org/web/20190708065931/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=2b96613f4ace36b26fe45da04a54761f&topic=5303.0;prev_next=next)   
---  

## Devi  
Author: silentgreen         Date: May 21, 2010, 03:27:22 PM  
---  
**Swami Vivekananda 's experience at Kshir Bhavani**   
It is two or three days since Swamiji has returned from Kashmir. His health is  
indifferent. When the disciple came to the Math, Swami Brahmananda said,  
"Since returning from Kashmir, Swamiji does not speak to anybody, he sits in  
one place rapt in thought; you go to him and by conversation try to draw his  
mind a little towards worldly objects."   
The disciple coming to Swamiji's room in the upper storey found him sitting as  
if immersed in deep mediation. There was no smile on his face, his brilliant  
eyes had no outward look, as if intent on seeing something within. Seeing the  
disciple, he only said, "You have come, my son? Please take your seat", and  
lapsed into silence. The disciple seeing the inside of his left eye reddened  
asked, "How is it that your eye is red?" "That is nothing", said Swamiji and  
was again silent. When even after a long time Swamiji did not speak, the  
disciple was a little troubled at heart and touching his feet said, "Won't you  
relate to me what things you have seen at Amarnath?" By the disciple's  
touching his feet, the tensity of his mood was broken a little, as if his  
attention was diverted a little outwards. He said, "Since visiting Amarnath, I  
feel as if Shiva is sitting on my head for twenty - four hours and would not  
come down." The disciple heard it with speechless wonder.   
Swamiji: I underwent great religious austerities at Amarnath and then in the  
temple of Kshir Bhavani. Go and prepare me some tobacco, I will relate  
everything to you.   
The disciple joyfully obeyed the order. Swamiji slowly smoking began to say,  
"On the way to Amarnath, I made a very steep ascent on the mountain. Pilgrims  
do not generally travel by that path. But the determination came upon me that  
I must go by that path, and so I did. The labour of the strenuous ascent has  
told on my body. The cold there is so biting that you feel it like pin -  
pricks."   
Disciple: I have heard that it is the custom to visit the image of Amarnath  
naked; is it so?   
Swamiji: Yes, I entered the cave with only my Kaupina on and my body smeared  
with holy ash; I did not then feel any cold or heat. But when I came out of  
the temple, I was benumbed by the cold.   
Disciple: Did you see the holy pigeons? I have heard, in that cold no living  
creatures are found to live, but a flight of pigeons from some unknown place  
frequents the place occasionally.   
Swamiji: Yes, I saw three or four white pigeons; whether they live in the cave  
or the neighboring hills, I could not ascertain.   
Disciple: Sir, I have heard people say that the sight of pigeons on coming out  
of the temple indicates that one has really been blessed with the vision of  
Shiva.   
Swamiji: I have heard that the sight of the pigeons brings to fruition  
whatever desires one may have.   
Then Swamiji said that on the way back he returned to Srinagar by the common  
route by which the pilgrims return. A few days after returning to Srinagar, he  
went to visit Kshir Bhavani Devi and staying there for seven days worshipped  
the Devi and made Homa to her with offerings of Kshira (condensed milk). Every  
day he used to worship the Devi with a maund of Kshira as offering. One day,  
while worshipping, the thought arose in Swamiji's mind: "Mother Bhavani has  
been manifesting Her Presence here for untold years. The Mohammedans came and  
destroyed her temple, yet the people of the place did nothing to protect Her.  
Alas, if I were then living I could never have borne it silently." When,  
thinking in this strain, his mind was much oppressed with sorrow and anguish,  
he distinctly heard the voice of the Mother saying, "It was according to My  
desire that the Mohammedans destroyed this temple. It is My desire that I  
should live in a dilapidated temple, otherwise, can I not immediately erect a  
seven - storeyed temple of gold here if I like? What can you do? Shall I  
protect you or shall you protect me!" Swamiji said, "Since hearing that divine  
voice, I cherish no more plans. The idea of building Maths etc. I have given  
up; as Mother wills, so it will be." The disciple, speechless with wonder,  
began to think, "Did he not one day tell me that whatever I saw and heard was  
but the echo of the Atman within me, that there was nothing outside?"\-- and  
fearlessly spoke it out also --"Sir, you used to say that Divine Voices are  
the echo of our inward thoughts and feelings." Swamiji gravely said, "Whether  
it be internal or external, if you actually hear with your ears such a  
disembodied voice, as I have done, can you deny it and call it false? Divine  
Voices are actually heard, just as you and I are talking."   
The disciple, without controverting accepted Swamiji's words, for his words  
always carried conviction.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20190708072405/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=2b96613f4ace36b26fe45da04a54761f&topic=5303.0;prev_next=prev](http://web.archive.org/web/20190708072405/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=2b96613f4ace36b26fe45da04a54761f&topic=5303.0;prev_next=prev)   
---  

## Re:[1] Devi  
Author: silentgreen         Date: May 21, 2010, 03:38:43 PM  
---  
**Condensed from the "The Esoteric Significance of Devi Mahatmyam" by Swami  
Krishnananda of Divine Life Society**   
The Devi-Mahatmya which is a majestic poetry in Sanskrit, describes to us the  
Epic of the march of the human soul to its destination, the realisation of  
this freedom, is the dramatic aspect of the great worship of the Divine Mother  
during these nine days of Navaratri or Dassehra as you call it. The march of  
the soul is dramatic. It is not a lagging or a crawling but a beautiful,  
sonorous, musical advent, you may call it. This is the beauty of the Devi-  
Mahatmya. All Epics have this particular character of grandeur, uplifting the  
emotions, and chastening the intellect of the devotee who goes through them.   
The Devi-Mahatmya is a part of the Markandeya Purana, containing thirteen  
chapters which are grouped into three sections, known as the Prathama  
Charitra, Madhyama Charitra and the Uttama Charitra.   
The march of the soul is graduated into three major steps, though there are  
many minor steps involved in these three major ones. While we have to rise  
through various rungs of the ladder of evolution, we come to three points or  
halting places, we may call them, where there is a complete transformation of  
outlook, attitude and constitution of our being. These threefold  
transformations of the spiritual being of the aspiring soul are dominated or  
presided over by three deities known as Maha-Kali, Maha-Lakshmi and Maha-  
Sarasvati.   
There are three stages of transformation described in the three sections of  
the Devi-Mahatmya. The first one is where Adi-Sakti awakes Maha-Vishnu who was  
asleep, so that He may destroy or overcome the original demoniacal forces,  
Madhu and Kaitabha. The second stage is where the same Sakti manifests Herself  
as Maha-Lakshmi and overcomes Mahishasura and Raktabija. The third one is  
where Sumbha and Nisumbha are destroyed by Maha-Sarasvati. And the nine days  
of worship comprehend these three stages adored in three days of worship,  
each. The final victory is called Vijaya-Dasami, the tenth day, as you know.  
That is the day of Victory, where you master the forces of Nature completely  
and your goal is reached.   
The lower powers of Nature are like dirt. We call them Mala, 'Vishnukarna-  
Malodbhuto Hantum Brahmanamudyato', says the Devi-Mahatmya. The Madhu and  
Kaitabha, two Rakshasas (demons) are supposed to have come out of the dirt of  
the ear of Vishnu. The lowest category of opposition is of the nature of dirt,  
Mala; and psychologically, from the point of view of the seeking soul, this  
dirt is in the form of Kama, Krodha and Lobha. 'Kama Esha Krodha Esha Rajo-  
guna Samudbhavah,' 'Kamah Krodhastatha Lobhah Tasmat Etat Trayam Tyajet'\--It  
is desire and anger born of Rajas; desire, anger and greed, these three  
therefore should be abandoned,--says the Bhagavadgita. These three are the  
gates to hell. These three are regarded as dirt, because they cover the  
consciousness in such a way that it appears to be not there at all. It is like  
painting a thin glass with coal-tar. You cannot see the glass. It is all  
pitch-dark like clouds. This has to be rubbed off with great effort.   
When this Mala or dirt is removed, we get into another trouble. Do not think  
that when you are tentatively a master of Kama, Krodha and Lobha, you are a  
real master of yourself. "There are more things in heaven and earth than your  
philosophy dreams of, O Horatio," said Hamlet. So do not think that your  
philosophy is exhaustive. There are many more things that philosophy cannot  
comprehend. Kama, Krodha and Lobha are not the only enemies. There are subtler  
ones, more formidable than these visible foes. As a matter of fact, the subtle  
invisible enemies are more difficult to overcome than the visible ones.  
Sometimes you know, an angry man is better than a smiling person. Smiling  
person is more dangerous than the angry one, because he can have a knife under  
his arm-pit. This is what we will face. When we manage somehow to overcome  
this Madhu and Kaitabha, Kama and Krodha, we get into the clutches of  
Mahishasura and Raktabija. They represent the Vikhepa Sakti, the tossing of  
the mind. Every minute the mind changes its forms which multiply in millions.  
You read in the Devi-Mahatmya, how Mahishasura changed his form. Now he is an  
elephant, now he is a buffalo, now he is something else. If you hit him in one  
form, he comes in another form. And this is your inexhaustible opponent. His  
energies are incapable of being exhausted. However much you may try to oppose  
the Vikshepa Sakti, it will manifest in some form or other. This is described  
in the form of the demon Raktabija, whose drops of blood were seeds of  
hundreds and thousands of demons like himself coming up. When the Devi severed  
the head of one Rakshasa, the blood fell on the ground profusely and from that  
blood, millions cropped up. And when She killed them, again another million  
cropped up. So there was no end for it. If you cut off one or two desires, the  
desire is not over. The root is still there. The branches are only severed.  
Unless the root is dug out, there is no use of merely severing the branches of  
the tree. So what did the Devi do? She asked Kali to spread her tongue  
throughout the earth, so that there is no ground at all for the Rakshasas to  
walk over. They had to walk over the tongue of Kali. So huge it was. And now  
the Goddess started cutting their heads and when the blood fell, it fell not  
on the ground but on the tongue of Kali. So she sucked everything. Chariots  
and horses and demons and everybody entered her mouth. She chewed all chariots  
into powder. So likewise, we have to adopt a technique of sucking the very  
root of desires and not merely chop off its branches. Otherwise, desires will  
take various forms like Mahishasura. When we think that Mahishasura has been  
killed, he comes as a buffalo and when the buffalo is attacked, he again comes  
as an elephant, and if Devi attacks the elephant, he comes as a bull and  
attacks Her. So, there is no way of overcoming these desires by merely dealing  
with them from outside by a frontal attack. Their very essence has to be  
sucked. Because, a desire is not an outward form or an action, it is a  
tendency within. You may do nothing, and yet you will have desires. Because,  
desire is not necessarily an activity. A desireful person need not be very  
active. He can be sitting quiet, doing nothing, saying nothing, and yet be  
full of desires. Because, it is a tendency of the mind, an inclination of  
consciousness, that we call a desire. That can be inside, even if there is  
outwardly nothing. This is the Vikshepa Sakti,--distraction, tossing and the  
chameleon-attitude of desire,--which attacks us, when, with Herculean efforts,  
we try to destroy or gain control over Kama and Krodha, Madhu and Kaitabha.  
After Madhu and Kaitabha, we get Mahishasura and Raktabija. Thus Mala and  
Vikshepa are the primary oppositions in our spiritual pursuit.   
Ancient masters have told us that while Mala or dirt of the psychological  
structure can be removed by Karma Yoga, by unselfish and dedicated service,  
Vikshepa or distraction of the mind can be removed only by worship of God, by  
Upasana. While Karma removes Mala, Upasana removes Vikshepa. But even now, we  
are not fully safe. While Mala might have gone and Vikshepa is not there, we  
may have a third trouble, namely, a complete oblivion of consciousness. We  
will have no knowledge of anything as to what is happening. Ajnana or  
Ignorance is a subtler opposing power than its effects in the form of Mala and  
Vikshepa. Distraction and direct sensual desires are the outer expressions of  
a subtle ignorance of Truth, Avidya or Ajnana. Why do we desire things?  
Because, we do not know the nature of Truth. Why does a strong wind blow?  
Because, the sun is covered over with clouds. The sun is covered by the clouds  
first, then there is darkness and then a gale, cyclone starts blowing from the  
north, breaking your umbrellas and uprooting trees. All these happen because  
the sun does not shine. Even so, when the Atman is covered over by ignorance  
of its nature, the winds of desire begin to blow, and they come like violent  
storms. Impetuous is the force of desire. You cannot stand against it, because  
the whole of Nature gets concentrated in a desire. That is why it is impetuous  
and uncontrollable. All the powers of Nature get focussed in a desire when it  
manifests itself, whatever be that desire. So the whole of Nature has to be  
subdued. You are not to subdue only your individual nature, but the cosmic  
Nature itself is to be subdued. This is what is depicted in the Epic of the  
Devi-Mahatmya. It is the subdual, overcoming, transformation of the cosmic  
Nature in the form of Tamas, Rajas and Sattva. While Mala represents Tamas,  
Vikshepa represents Rajas.   
Now, Sattva is also a Guna, unfortunately. We always praise Sattva and regard  
it as a very desirable thing. But it is like a transparent glass that is  
placed between us and the Truth. You can see through it, but you cannot go  
beyond it. Because, though the glass is transparent, it can obstruct your  
movement. It is not like a brick-wall, completely preventing your vision, as  
Tamas does; it is not like a blowing wind which simply tosses you here and  
there, as Rajas does; it is a plain glass, through which you can have vision  
of Reality, but you cannot contact Reality nevertheless. How can you contact a  
thing when there is a glass between you and the thing? Yet you can see it. So  
they say even Sattva is an obstacle, though it is better than the other two  
forces, in the sense that through it you can have a vision or an insight into  
the nature of Reality which transcends even Sattva. There is a glass pane and  
you can see a mango fruit on the other side of it. You can see it very well,  
but cannot get it, you cannot grab it. You know the reason. Even Sattva is a  
subtle medium of obstruction, which acts in a double form; as complacency or  
satisfaction with what has been achieved, and an ignorance of what is beyond.  
These two aspects of Sattva are indicated by the two personalities of Sumbha  
and Nisumbha. They have to be dispelled by the power of higher wisdom, which  
is Maha-Sarasvati.   
Action, contemplation and knowledge are the three stages through which we have  
to pierce through the veil of Prakriti or three Gunas. And as I mentioned  
earlier, we are not individual pedestrians on the path. There is no individual  
movement here. It is all a total movement of everything connected with us and  
no item in the world is really disconnected from us. Every thread in a cloth  
is connected with every other thread. When you lift one thread of a cloth, the  
whole cloth comes up, because of the interconnection of the warp and the woof  
of the cloth. Likewise, there is an internal interconnection of beings, which  
prevents any kind of individual effort for the sake of salvation. That is why  
salvation is universal, it is not individual. When you attain to the Supreme  
Being, you become the Universal Being. You do not go as a Mr. So and So or as  
a Mrs. So and So, there. So the path of Sadhana also is a cosmic effort of the  
soul, a subtle secret which most Sadhakas are likely to forget. It is not a  
small, simple, private effort of yours in the closet of your room, but a  
dynamic activity of your essential personality, internally connected by  
unforeseen relationships with everything in the cosmos. When you enter the  
path of the spirit, you have also at the same time entered the path of cosmic  
relationship. A Sadhaka is, therefore, a cosmic person. A spiritual seeker, an  
aspirant is a representative of cosmic situation. He is not an individual,  
though he looks like a person, and his Sadhana is not an individual effort. It  
is much more than what it appears to be on the surface. It is, as it were, the  
conversation between Nara and Narayana, Krishna-Arjuna-Samvada, as they call  
it. You and your God are face to face with each other. In Sadhana, in  
spiritual effort, you are face to face with your Maker. And the face of the  
Maker is universal. He is not in one spot, hiding himself in one corner.   
So, the dance of the cosmic spirit, in its supernal effort at self-  
transcendence, is majestically described in the beautifully worded sonorous  
songs of the Devi-Mahatmya, where we are given a stirring account, a  
stimulating description of what Maha-Kali did, what Maha-Lakshmi did and Maha-  
Sarasvati did in bringing about this evolution, transformation of the whole  
range of Prakriti from Tamas to Rajas, from Rajas to Sattva and from Sattva to  
Supreme Vijaya, mastery in the Absolute, God-realisation.   
So, through the worship of Maha-Kali, Maha-Lakshmi, and Maha-Sarasvati, we  
worship Mula-Prakriti, Adi-Sakti in her cosmic dance-form of transformation,  
prosperity and Illumination. In the beginning, what happens to a Sadhaka?  
There is a necessity of self-transformation. It is all hardship, rubbing and  
cleaning, washing, sweeping, etc. That is the first stage through the worship  
of Maha-Kali, who brings about a destruction of all barriers. Then what  
happens? There is tremendous prosperity. You become a master and a progressive  
soul commanding all powers, getting everything that you want. This is the  
second stage. In the first stage, it looked as if you were a poor person,  
having nothing, very weak. But, when you overcome this weakness, by removing  
the barrier of Tamas, you become prosperous. Nobody can be as rich as a Yogi,  
you know. He can command all the powers. By a thought he can invoke all  
things, and this is Goddess Maha-Lakshmi working. When Maha-Kali has finished  
her work of destruction of opposition, Maha-Lakshmi comes as prosperity. A  
great Yogi is also like a royal personality, because of his internal  
invocations, though unconsciously done, of cosmic powers. When prosperity  
dawns, it looks as if the whole universe is a heaven. In the first stage, it  
looked like a hell. Afterwards, in the second stage, it looks like a heaven,  
when Maha-Lakshmi begins to work. But this also is not sufficient. Knowledge  
should dawn. It is not heaven that you are asking for. You want the  
realisation of Truth. Sarasvati will come for help and a flood of light on  
Truth will be thrown and you will see things as they are. There is no  
enjoyment, prosperity, richness, wealth or any such thing. It is Truth  
unconnected with yourself in the beginning, but later on inseparable from  
yourself. Thus, from opposition to prosperity, from prosperity to  
enlightenment, and from enlightenment to Self-realisation do we proceed. So,  
these are the truths esoterically conveyed to us in the Mantras of the Devi-  
Mahatmya.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20190708072405/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=2b96613f4ace36b26fe45da04a54761f&topic=5303.0;prev_next=prev](http://web.archive.org/web/20190708072405/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=2b96613f4ace36b26fe45da04a54761f&topic=5303.0;prev_next=prev)   
---  

