--- 
title: Pearls from the bhAgavatA   
tags: Balaji Ravi.N Beloved_Abstract Nagaraj  
---  
## Sri Aurobindo-The Four Aids, a chapter in The Synthesis of Yoga  
Author: Ravi.N              Date: October 16, 2012, 07:37:13 AM  
---  
CHAPTER I, **The Four Aids**   
Yoga-siddhi, the perfection that comes from the practice of Yoga, can be best  
attained by the combined working of four great instruments. There is, first,  
the knowledge of the truths, principles, powers and processes that govern the  
realisation -- sastra. Next comes a patient and persistent action on the lines  
laid down by the knowledge, the force of our personal effort -- utsaha. There  
intervenes, third, uplifting our knowledge and effort into the domain of  
spiritual experience, the direct suggestion, example and influence of the  
Teacher -- guru. Last comes the instrumentality of Time -- kala; for in all  
things there is a cycle of their action and a period of the divine movement.   
 _The supreme Shastra of the integral Yoga is the eternal Veda secret in the  
heart of every thinking and living being. The lotus of the eternal knowledge  
and the eternal perfection is a bud closed and folded up within us. It opens  
swiftly or gradually, petal by petal, through successive realisations, once  
the mind of man begins to turn towards the Eternal, once his heart, no longer  
compressed and confined by attachment to finite appearances, becomes  
enamoured, in whatever degree, of the Infinite. All life, all thought, all  
energising of the faculties, all experiences passive or active, become  
thenceforward so many shocks which disintegrate the teguments of the soul and  
remove the obstacles to the inevitable efflorescence. **He who chooses the  
Infinite has been chosen by the Infinite. He has received the divine touch  
without which there is no awakening, no opening of the spirit** ; but once it  
is received, attainment is sure, whether conquered swiftly in the course of  
one human life or pursued patiently through many stadia of the cycle of  
existence in the manifested universe. _   
_Nothing can be taught to the mind which is not already concealed as potential  
knowledge in the unfolding soul of the creature_. So also all perfection of  
which the outer man is capable, is only a realising of the eternal perfection  
of the Spirit within him. We know the Divine and become the Divine, because we  
are That already in our secret nature. _All teaching is a revealing, all  
becoming is an unfolding. Self-attainment is the secret; self-knowledge and an  
increasing consciousness are the means and the process.[/_ left]   
 _The usual agency of this revealing is the Word, the thing heard (sruta). The  
Word may come to us from within; it may come to us from without. But in either  
case, it is only an agency for setting the hidden knowledge to work. The word  
within may be the utterance of the inmost soul in us which is always open to  
the Divine or it may be the word of the secret and universal Teacher who is  
seated in the hearts of all_. There are rare cases in which none other is  
needed, for all the rest of the Yoga is an unfolding under that constant touch  
and guidance; the lotus of the knowledge discloses itself from within by the  
power of irradiating effulgence which proceeds from the Dweller in the lotus  
of the heart. Great indeed, but few are those to whom self-knowledge from  
within is thus sufficient and who do not need to pass under the dominant  
influence of a written book or a living teacher.   
 _Ordinarily, the Word from without, representative of the Divine, is needed  
as an aid till the work of self-unfolding; and it may be either a word from  
the past or the more powerful word of the living Guru_. In some cases this  
representative word is only taken as a sort of excuse for the inner power to  
awaken and manifest; it is, as it were, a concession of the omnipotent and  
omniscient Divine to the generality of a law that governs Nature. Thus it is  
said in the Upanishads of Krishna, son of Devaki, that he received a word of  
the Rishi Ghora and had the knowledge. So Ramakrishna, having attained by his  
own internal effort the central illumination, accepted several teachers in the  
different paths of Yoga, but always showed in the manner and swiftness of his  
realisation that this acceptance was a concession to the general rule by which  
effective knowledge must be received as by a disciple from a Guru.   
continued....  
Â« _Last Edit: October 16, 2012, 08:06:25 AM by Ravi.N_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[1] Sri Aurobindo-The Four Aids, a chapter in The Synthesis of Yoga  
Author: Ravi.N              Date: October 16, 2012, 07:48:19 AM  
---  
CHAPTER I, **The Four Aids** continued....   
But usually the representative influence occupies a much larger place in the  
life of the Sadhaka. If the Yoga is guided by a received written Shastra, --  
some Word from the past which embodies the experience of former Yogins, -- it  
may be practised either by personal effort alone or with the aid of a Gum. The  
spiritual knowledge is then gained through meditation on the truths that are  
taught and it is made living and conscious by their realisation in the  
personal experience; the Yoga proceeds by the results of prescribed methods  
taught in a Scripture or a tradition and reinforced and illumined by the  
instructions of the Master. This is a narrower practice, but safe and  
effective within its limits, because it follows a well-beaten track to a long  
familiar goal.   
_For the Sadhaka of the Integral Yoga it is necessary to remember that no  
written Shastra, however great its authority or however large its spirit, can  
be more than a partial expression of the eternal Knowledge. He will use, but  
never bind himself even by the greatest Scripture. Where the Scripture is  
profound, wide, catholic, it may exercise upon him an influence for the  
highest good and of incalculable importance. It may be associated in his  
experience with his awakening to crowning verities and his realisation of the  
highest experiences. His Yoga may be governed for a long time by one Scripture  
or by several successively, -- if it is in the line of the great Hindu  
tradition, by the Gita, for example, the Upanishads, the Veda._ _Or it may be  
a good part of his development to include in its material a richly varied  
experience of the truths of many Scriptures and make the future opulent with  
all that is best in the past. But in the end he must take his station, or  
better still, if he can, always and from the beginning he must live in his own  
soul beyond the written Truth, -- sabdabrahmativartate -- beyond all that he  
has heard and all that he has yet to hear, -- srotaryasya srutasya ca. **For  
he is not the Sadhaka of a book or of many books; he is a Sadhaka of the  
Infinite**_.   
Another kind of Shastra is not Scripture, but a statement of the science and  
methods, the effective principles and way of working of the path of Yoga which  
the Sadhaka elects to follow. Each path has its Shastra, either written or  
traditional, passing from mouth to mouth through a long line of Teachers. In  
India a great authority, a high reverence even is ordinarily attached to the  
written or traditional teaching. All the lines of the Yoga are supposed to be  
fixed and the Teacher who has received the Shastra by tradition and realised  
it in practice guides the disciple along the immemorial tracks. One often even  
hears the objection urged against a new practice, a new Yogic teaching, the  
adoption of a new formula, _**" It is not according to the Shastra."** But  
neither in fact nor in the actual practice of the Yogins is there really any  
such entire rigidity of an iron door shut against new truth, fresh revelation,  
widened experience. The written or traditional teaching expresses the  
knowledge and experiences of many centuries systematised, organised, made  
attainable to the beginner. Its importance and utility are therefore immense.  
**But a great freedom of variation and development is always practicable**.  
Even so highly scientific a system as Rajayoga can be practised on other lines  
than the organised method of Patanjali. Each of the three paths, trimarga,  
breaks into many bypaths which meet again at the goal. The general knowledge  
on which the Yoga depends is fixed, but the order, the succession, the  
devices, the forms must be allowed to vary, **for the needs and particular  
impulsions of the individual nature have to be satisfied even while the  
general truths remain firm and constant**_.   
 _An integral and synthetic Yoga needs especially not to be bound by any  
written or traditional Shastra; for while it embraces the knowledge received  
from the past, it seeks to organise it anew for the present and the future. An  
absolute liberty of experience and of the restatement of knowledge in new  
terms and new combinations is the condition of its self-formation. Seeking to  
embrace all life in itself, **it is in the position not of a pilgrim following  
the highroad to his destination, but, to that extent at least, of a path-  
finder hewing his way through a virgin forest**. For Yoga has long  
diverged from life and the ancient systems which sought to embrace it, such as  
those of our Vedic forefathers, are far away from us, expressed in terms which  
are no longer accessible, thrown into forms which are no longer applicable.  
Since then mankind has moved forward on the current of eternal Time and the  
same problem has to be approached from a new starting-point_.   
continued.....
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[2] Sri Aurobindo-The Four Aids, a chapter in The Synthesis of Yoga  
Author: Ravi.N              Date: October 16, 2012, 07:52:45 AM  
---  
CHAPTER I, **The Four Aids** continued....   
By this Yoga _we not only seek the Infinite, but we call upon the Infinite to  
unfold himself in human life_. Therefore the Shastra of our Yoga must provide  
for an infinite liberty in the receptive human soul. A free adaptability in  
the manner and type of the individual's acceptance of the Universal and  
Transcendent into himself is the right condition for the full spiritual life  
in man. _Vivekananda, pointing out that the unity of all religions must  
necessarily express itself by an increasing richness of variety in its forms,  
said once that the perfect state of that essential unity would come when each  
man had his own religion, when not bound by sect or traditional form he  
followed the free self-adaptation of his nature in its relations with the  
Supreme_. So also one may say that the perfection of the integral Yoga will  
come when each man is able to follow his own path of Yoga, pursuing the  
development of his own nature in its upsurging towards that which transcends  
the nature. For freedom is the final law and the last consummation.   
Meanwhile certain general lines have to be formed which may help to guide the  
thought and practice of the Sadhaka. But these must take, as much as possible,  
forms of general truths, general statements of principle, the most powerful  
broad directions of effort and development rather than a fixed system which  
has to be followed as a routine. All Shastra is the outcome of past experience  
and a help to future experience. _It is an aid and a partial guide. It puts up  
signposts, gives the names of the main roads and the already explored  
directions, so that the traveller may know whither and by what paths he is  
proceeding._   
 **The rest depends on personal effort and experience and upon the power of  
the Guide.**   
continued...
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[3] Sri Aurobindo-The Four Aids, a chapter in The Synthesis of Yoga  
Author: Ravi.N              Date: October 17, 2012, 06:15:01 AM  
---  
CHAPTER I, **The Four Aids** continued....   
The development of the experience in its rapidity, its amplitude, the  
intensity and power of its results, depends primarily, **in the beginning of  
the path and long after, on the aspiration and personal effort of the  
Sadhaka**. The process of Yoga is a turning of the human soul from the  
egoistic state of consciousness absorbed in the outward appearances and  
attractions of things to a higher state in which the Transcendent and  
Universal can pour itself into the individual mould and transform it. The  
first determining element of the siddhi is, therefore, the intensity of the  
turning, the force which directs the soul inward. The power of aspiration of  
the heart, the force of the will, the concentration of the mind, the  
perseverance and determination of the applied energy are the measure of that  
intensity. The ideal Sadhaka should be able to say in the Biblical phrase, "My  
zeal for the Lord has eaten me up." It is this zeal for the Lord, utsaha, the  
zeal of the whole nature for its divine results, vyakulata, the heart's  
eagerness for the attainment of the Divine, -- that devours the ego and breaks  
up the limitations of its petty and narrow mould for the full and wide  
reception of that which it seeks, that which, being universal, exceeds and,  
being transcendent, surpasses even the largest and highest individual self and  
nature.   
But this is only one side of the force that works for perfection. The process  
of the integral Yoga has three stages, not indeed sharply distinguished or  
separate, but in a certain measure successive. There must be, first, the  
effort towards at least an initial and enabling self-transcendence and contact  
with the Divine; next, the reception of that which transcends, that with which  
we have gained communion, into ourselves for the transformation of our whole  
conscious being; last, the utilisation of our transformed humanity as a divine  
centre in the world. So long as the contact with the Divine is not in some  
considerable degree established, so long as there is not some measure of  
sustained identity, sayujya, the element of personal effort must normally  
predominate. But in proportion as this contact establishes itself, the Sadhaka  
must become conscious that a force other than his own, a force transcending  
his egoistic endeavour and capacity, is at work in him and to this Power he  
learns progressively to submit himself and delivers up to it the charge of his  
Yoga. In the end his own will and force become one with the higher Power; he  
merges them in the divine Will and its transcendent and universal Force. He  
finds it thenceforward presiding over the necessary transformation of his  
mental, vital and physical being with an impartial wisdom and provident  
effectivity of which the eager and interested ego is not capable. It is when  
this identification and this self-merging are complete that the divine centre  
in the world is ready.   
 **Always indeed it is the higher Power that acts. Our sense of personal  
effort and aspiration comes from the attempt of the egoistic mind to identify  
itself in a wrong and imperfect way with the workings of the divine Force**.  
It persists in applying to experience on a supernormal plane the ordinary  
terms of mentality which it applies to its normal experiences in the world. In  
the world we act with the sense of egoism; we claim the universal forces that  
work in us as our own; we claim as the effect of our personal will, wisdom,  
force, virtue the selective, formative, progressive action of the Transcendent  
in this frame of mind, life and body. Enlightenment brings to us the knowledge  
that the ego is only an instrument; we begin to perceive and feel that these  
things are our own in the sense that they belong to our supreme and integral  
Self, one with the Transcendent, not to the instrumental ego. Our limitations  
and distortions are our contribution to the working; the true power in it is  
the Divine's. _When the human ego realises that its will is a tool, its wisdom  
ignorance and childishness, its power an infant 's groping, its virtue a  
pretentious impurity, and learns to trust itself to that which transcends it,  
that is its salvation. The apparent freedom and self-assertion of our personal  
being to which we are so profoundly attached, conceal a most pitiable  
subjection to a thousand suggestions, impulsions, forces which we have made  
extraneous to our little person. Our ego, boasting of freedom, is at every  
moment the slave, toy and puppet of countless beings, powers, forces,  
influences in universal Nature. The self-abnegation of the ego in the Divine  
is its self-fulfillment; its surrender to that which transcends it is its  
liberation from bonds and limits and its perfect freedom_.   
continued...
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[4] Sri Aurobindo-The Four Aids, a chapter in The Synthesis of Yoga  
Author: Ravi.N              Date: October 17, 2012, 06:21:40 AM  
---  
CHAPTER I, **The Four Aids** continued....   
But still, in the practical development, each of the three stages has its  
necessity and utility and must be given its time or its place. It will not do,  
it cannot be safe or effective to begin with the last and highest alone. It  
would not be the right course, either, to leap prematurely from one to  
another. For even if from the beginning we recognise in mind and heart the  
Supreme, there are elements of the nature which long prevent the recognition  
from becoming realisation. But without realisation our mental belief cannot  
become a dynamic reality; it is still only a figure of knowledge, not a living  
truth, an idea, not yet a power. And even if realisation has begun, it may be  
dangerous to imagine or to assume too soon that we are altogether in the hands  
of the Supreme or are acting as his instrument. That assumption may introduce  
a calamitous falsity; it may produce a helpless inertia or, magnifying the  
movements of the ego with the Divine Name, it may disastrously distort and  
ruin the whole course of the Yoga. _There is a period, more or less prolonged,  
of internal effort and struggle in which the individual will has to reject the  
darkness and distortions of the lower nature and to put itself resolutely or  
vehemently on the side of the divine Light. The mental energies, the heart 's  
emotions, the vital desires, the very physical being have to be compelled into  
the right attitude or trained to admit and answer to the right influences. It  
is only then, only when this has been truly done, that the surrender of the  
lower to the higher can be effected, because the sacrifice has become  
acceptable. _   
**The personal will of the Sadhaka** **has first to seize on the egoistic  
energies and turn them towards the light and the right** ; once turned, he has  
still to train them to recognise that always, always to accept, always to  
follow that. Progressing, he learns, still using the personal will, personal  
effort, personal energies, to employ them as representatives of the higher  
Power and in conscious obedience to the higher Influence. Progressing yet  
farther, his will, effort, energy become no longer personal and separate, but  
activities of that higher Power and Influence at work in the individual. But  
there is still a sort of gulf of distance which necessitates an obscure  
process of transit, not always accurate, sometimes even very distorting,  
between the divine Origin and the emerging human current. _At the end of the  
progress, with the progressive disappearance of egoism and impurity and  
ignorance, this last separation is removed; all in the individual becomes the  
divine working_.   
continued....
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[5] Sri Aurobindo-The Four Aids, a chapter in The Synthesis of Yoga  
Author: Ravi.N              Date: October 18, 2012, 07:15:27 AM  
---  
CHAPTER I, **The Four Aids** continued....   
As the supreme Shastra of the integral Yoga is the eternal Veda secret in the  
heart of every man, **so its supreme Guide and Teacher is the inner Guide, the  
World-Teacher, jagad-guru, secret within us**. It is he who destroys our  
darkness by the resplendent light of his knowledge; that light becomes within  
us the increasing glory of his own self-revelation. He discloses progressively  
in us his own nature of freedom, bliss, love, power, immortal being. He sets  
above us his divine example as our ideal and transforms the lower existence  
into a reflection of that which it contemplates. By the inpouring of his own  
influence and presence into us he enables the individual being to attain to  
identity with the universal and transcendent.   
What is his method and his system? _He has no method and every method. His  
system is a natural organisation of the highest processes and movements of  
which the nature is capable. Applying themselves even to the pettiest details  
and to the actions the most insignificant in their appearance with as much  
care and thoroughness as to the greatest, they in the end lift all into the  
Light and transform all. For in his Yoga there is nothing too small to be used  
and nothing too great to be attempted. As the servant and disciple of the  
Master has no business with pride or egoism because all is done for him from  
above, so also he has no right to despond because of his personal deficiencies  
or the stumblings of his nature. For the Force that works in him is impersonal  
- or superpersonal-and infinite_.   
The full recognition of this inner Guide, Master of the Yoga, lord, light,  
enjoyer and goal of all sacrifice and effort, is of the utmost importance in  
the path of integral perfection. _It is immaterial whether he is first seen as  
an impersonal Wisdom, Love and Power behind all things, as an Absolute  
manifesting in. the relative and attracting it, as one 's highest Self and the  
highest Self of all, as a Divine Person within us and in the world, in one of  
his - or her - numerous forms and names or as the ideal which the mind  
conceives. In the end we perceive that he is all and more than all these  
things together- The mind's door of entry to the conception of him must  
necessarily vary according to the past evolution and the present nature_.   
**This inner Guide is often veiled at first by the very intensity of our  
personal effort and by the ego 's preoccupation with itself and its aims**.  
_As we gain in clarity and the turmoil of egoistic effort gives place to a  
calmer self-knowledge, we recognise the source of the growing light within us.  
We recognise it retrospectively as we realise how all our obscure and  
conflicting movements have been determined towards an end that we only now  
begin to perceive, how even before our entrance into the path of the Yoga the  
evolution of our life has been designedly led towards its turning point. For  
now we begin to understand the sense of our struggles and efforts, successes  
and failures. At last we are able to seize the meaning of our ordeals and  
sufferings and can appreciate the help that was given us by all that hurt and  
resisted and the utility of our very falls and stumblings_. We recognise this  
divine leading afterwards, not retrospectively but immediately, in the  
moulding of our thoughts by a transcendent Seer, of our will and actions by an  
all-embracing Power, of our emotional life by an all-attracting and all-  
assimilating Bliss and Love. _We recognise it too in a more personal relation  
that from the first touched us or at the last seizes us; we feel the eternal  
presence of a supreme Master, Friend, Lover, Teacher. **We recognise it in the  
essence of our being** as that develops into likeness and oneness with a  
greater and wider existence; for we perceive that this miraculous development  
is not the result of our own efforts; an eternal Perfection is moulding us  
into its own image. One who is the Lord or Ishwara of the Yogic philosophies,  
the Guide in the conscious being (caitya guru or antaryamin), the Absolute of  
the thinker, the Unknowable of the Agnostic, the universal Force of the  
materialist, the supreme Soul and the supreme shakti, the One who is  
differently named and imaged by the religions, is the Master of our Yoga_.   
**To see, know, become and fulfil this One in our inner selves and in all our  
outer nature, was always the secret goal and becomes now the conscious purpose  
of our embodied existence.**   
To be conscious of him in all parts of our being and equally in all that the  
dividing mind sees as outside our being, is the consummation of the individual  
consciousness. To be possessed by him and possess him in ourselves and in all  
things is the term of all empire and mastery. To enjoy him in all experience  
of passivity and activity, of peace and of power, of unity and of difference  
is the happiness which the jiva, the individual soul manifested in the world,  
is obscurely seeking. This is the entire definition of the aim of integral  
Yoga; it is the rendering in personal experience of the truth which universal  
Nature has hidden in herself and which she travails to discover. _It is the  
conversion of the human soul into the divine soul and of natural life into  
divine living_.   
continued.....  
Â« _Last Edit: October 18, 2012, 07:18:18 AM by Ravi.N_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[6] Sri Aurobindo-The Four Aids, a chapter in The Synthesis of Yoga  
Author: Ravi.N              Date: October 18, 2012, 07:28:35 AM  
---  
CHAPTER I **,The Four Aids** continued....   
The surest way towards this integral fulfilment **is to find the Master of the  
secret who dwells within us, open ourselves constantly to the divine Power  
which is also the divine Wisdom and Love and trust to it to effect the  
conversion**. But it is difficult for the egoistic consciousness to do this at  
all at the beginning. And, if done at all, it is still difficult to do it  
perfectly and in every strand of our nature. It is difficult at first because  
our egoistic habits of thought, of sensation, of feeling block up the avenues  
by which we can arrive at the perception that is needed. It is difficult  
afterwards because the faith, the surrender, the courage requisite in this  
path are not easy to the ego-clouded soul. _The divine working is not the  
working which the egoistic mind desires or approves; for it uses error in  
order to arrive at truth, suffering in order to arrive at bliss, imperfection  
in order to arrive at perfection._ The ego cannot see where it is being led;  
it revolts against the leading, loses confidence, loses courage. These  
failings would not matter; for the divine Guide within is not offended by our  
revolt, not discouraged by our want of faith or repelled by our weakness; he  
has the entire love of the mother and the entire patience of the teacher. But  
by withdrawing our assent from the guidance we lose the consciousness, though  
not all the actuality-not, in any case, the eventuality - of its benefit. And  
we withdraw our assent because we fail to distinguish our higher Self from the  
lower through which he is preparing his self-revelation. As in the world, so  
in ourselves, we cannot see God because of his workings and, especially,  
**because he works in us through our nature and not by a succession of  
arbitrary miracles**. _Man demands miracles that he may have faith; he wishes  
to be dazzled in order that he may see_. _And this impatience, this ignorance  
may turn into a great danger and disaster if, in our revolt against the divine  
leading, we call in another distorting Force more satisfying to our impulses  
and desires and ask it to guide us and give it the Divine Name._   
But while it is difficult for man to believe in something unseen within  
himself, it is easy for him to believe in something which he can image as  
extraneous to himself. _The spiritual progress of most human beings demands an  
extraneous support, an object of faith outside us. It needs an external image  
of God; or it needs a human representative, - Incarnation, Prophet or Guru; or  
it demands both and receives them. For according to the need of the human soul  
the Divine manifests himself as deity, as human divine or in simple humanity,  
- using that thick disguise, which so successfully conceals the Godhead, for a  
means of transmission of his guidance_.   
**The Hindu discipline of spirituality provides for this need of the soul by  
the conceptions of the Ishta Devata, the Avatar and the Guru**. _By the Ishta  
Devata, the chosen deity, is meant, - not some inferior Power, but a name and  
form of the transcendent and universal Godhead. Almost all religions either  
have as their base or make use of some such name and form of the Divine. Its  
necessity for the human soul is evident. God is the All and more than the All.  
But that which is more than the All, how shall man conceive? And even the All  
is at first too hard for him; for he himself in his active consciousness is a  
limited and selective formation and can open himself only to that which is in  
harmony with his limited nature. There are things in the All which are too  
hard for his comprehension or seem too terrible to his sensitive emotions and  
cowering sensations. Or, simply, he cannot conceive as the Divine, cannot  
approach or cannot recognise something that is too much out of the circle of  
his ignorant or partial conceptions. **It is necessary for him to conceive God  
in his own image or at some form that is beyond himself but consonant with his  
highest tendencies and seizable by his feelings or his intelligence**.  
Otherwise it would be difficult for him to come into contact and communion  
with the Divine_.   
_Even then his nature calls for a human intermediary so that he may feel the  
Divine in something entirely close to his own humanity and sensible in a human  
influence and example. This call is satisfied by the Divine manifest in a  
human appearance, the Incarnation, the Avatar-Krishna, Christ, Buddha. Or if  
this is too hard for him to conceive, the Divine represents himself through a  
less marvellous intermediary, - Prophet or Teacher. For many who cannot  
conceive or are unwilling to accept the Divine Man, are ready to open  
themselves to the supreme man, terming him not incarnation but world-teacher  
or divine representative._   
This also is not enough; a living influence, a living example, a present  
instruction is needed. For it is only the few who can make the past Teacher  
and his teaching, the past Incarnation and his example and influence a living  
force in their lives. For this need also the Hindu discipline provides in the  
relation of the Guru and the disciple. _The Guru may sometimes be the  
Incarnation or World-Teacher; but it is sufficient that he should represent to  
the disciple the divine wisdom, convey to him something of the divine ideal or  
make him feel the realised relation of the human soul with the Eternal_.   
continued....
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[7] Sri Aurobindo-The Four Aids, a chapter in The Synthesis of Yoga  
Author: Ravi.N              Date: October 19, 2012, 06:51:33 AM  
---  
CHAPTER I, **The Four Aids** continued....   
The Sadhaka of the integral Yoga will make use of all these aids according to  
his nature; but it is necessary that he should shun their limitations and cast  
from himself that exclusive tendency of egoistic mind which cries, "My God, my  
Incarnation, my Prophet, my Guru," and opposes it to all other realisation in  
a sectarian or a fanatical spirit. All sectarianism, all fanaticism must be  
shunned; for it is inconsistent with the integrity of the divine realisation.   
On the contrary, the Sadhaka of the integral Yoga will not be satisfied until  
he has included all other names and forms of Deity in his own conception, seen  
his own Ishta Devata in all others, unified all Avatars in the unity of Him  
who descends in the Avatar, welded the truth in all teachings into the harmony  
of the Eternal Wisdom.   
Nor should he forget the aim of these external aids which is to awaken his  
soul to the Divine within him. Nothing has been finally accomplished if that  
has not been accomplished. **It is not sufficient to worship Krishna, Christ  
or Buddha without, if there is not the revealing and the formation of the  
Buddha, the Christ or Krishna in ourselves. And all other aids equally have no  
other purpose; each is a bridge between man 's unconverted state and the  
revelation of the Divine within him.  
The Teacher of the integral Yoga will follow as far as he may the method of  
the Teacher within us. He will lead the disciple through the nature of the  
disciple. _Teaching, example, influence, -- these are the three instruments of  
the Guru_. _But the wise Teacher will not seek to impose himself or his  
opinions on the passive acceptance of the receptive mind; he will throw in  
only what is productive and sure as a seed which will grow under the divine  
fostering within. He will seek to awaken much more than to instruct; he will  
aim at the growth of the faculties and the experiences by a natural process  
and free expansion. He will give a method as an aid, as a utilisable device,  
not as an imperative formula or a fixed routine. And he will be on his guard  
against any turning of the means into a limitation, against the mechanising of  
process. His whole business is to awaken the divine light and set working the  
divine force of which he himself is only a means and an aid, a body or a  
channel_.   
The example is more powerful than the instruction; but it is not the example  
of the outward acts nor that of the personal character, which is of most  
importance. These have their place and their utility; but what will most  
stimulate aspiration in others is the central fact of the divine realisation  
within him governing his whole life and inner state and all his activities.  
This is the universal and essential element; the rest belongs to individual  
person and circumstance. It is this dynamic realisation that the Sadhaka must  
feel and reproduce in himself according to his own nature; he need not strive  
after an imitation from outside which may well be sterilising rather than  
productive of right and natural fruits.   
Influence is more important than example. Influence is not the outward  
authority of the Teacher over his disciple, but the power of his contact, of  
his presence, of the nearness of his soul to the soul of another, infusing  
into it, even though in silence, that which he himself is and possesses. This  
is the supreme sign of the Master. For the greatest Master is much less a  
Teacher than a Presence pouring the divine consciousness and its constituting  
light and power and purity and bliss into all who are receptive around him;And  
it shall also be a sign of the teacher of the integral Yoga that he does not  
arrogate to himself Guruhood in a humanly vain and self-exalting spirit. His  
work, if he has one, is a trust from above, he himself a channel, a vessel or  
a representative. He is a man helping his brothers, a child leading children,  
a Light kindling other lights, an awakened Soul awakening souls, at highest a  
Power or Presence of the Divine calling to him other powers of the Divine.   
continued....
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[8] Sri Aurobindo-The Four Aids, a chapter in The Synthesis of Yoga  
Author: Ravi.N              Date: October 19, 2012, 06:54:40 AM  
---  
CHAPTER I, **The Four Aids** continued....   
The Sadhaka who has all these aids is sure of his goal. Even a fall will be  
for him only a means of rising and death a passage towards fulfilment. For  
once on his path, birth and death become only processes in the development of  
his being and the stages of his journey.   
**Time is the remaining aid needed for the effectivity of the process. Time  
presents itself to human effort as an enemy or a friend, as a resistance, a  
medium or an instrument. But always it is really the instrument of the soul**.  
Time is a field of circumstances and forces meeting and working out a  
resultant progression whose course it measures. To the ego it is a tyrant or a  
resistance, to the Divine an instrument. Therefore, while our effort is  
personal. Time appears as a resistance, for it presents to us all the  
obstruction of the forces that conflict with our own. When the divine working  
and the personal are combined in our consciousness, it appears as a medium and  
condition. When the two become one, it appears as a servant and instrument.   
The ideal attitude of the Sadhaka towards Time _is to have an endless patience  
as if he had all eternity for his fulfillment and yet to develop the energy  
that shall realise now and with an ever-increasing mastery and pressure of  
rapidity till it reaches the miraculous instantaneousness of_ the supreme  
divine Transformation.   
Concluded.
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[9] Sri Aurobindo-Belief,Trust,confidence,Faith  
Author: Ravi.N              Date: November 09, 2012, 05:43:17 PM  
---  
Faith Ã¢ÂÂ a **dynamic entire** belief and acceptance.   
Belief Ã¢ÂÂ intellectual acceptance only.   
Conviction Ã¢ÂÂ intellectual belief held on what seems to be good reasons.   
Reliance Ã¢ÂÂ dependence on another for something, based on trust.   
Trust Ã¢ÂÂ the feeling of sure expectation of another's help and reliance on  
his word, character, etc.   
Confidence Ã¢ÂÂ the sense of security that goes with trust   
Excerpt from Letters on Yoga-Sri Aurobindo
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[10] Sri Aurobindo-On Faith  
Author: Ravi.N              Date: November 09, 2012, 05:49:03 PM  
---  
Faith does not depend upon experience; it is something that is there before  
experience. When one starts the yoga, it is not usually on the strength of  
experience, but on the strength of faith. It is so not only in yoga and the  
spiritual life, but in ordinary life also. All men of action, discoverers,  
inventors, creators of knowledge proceed by faith and, until the proof is made  
or the thing done, they go on in spite of disappointment, failure, disproof,  
denial because of something in them that tells them that this is the truth,  
the thing that must be followed and done. _Ramakrishna even went so far as to  
say, when asked whether blind faith was not wrong, that blind faith was the  
only kind to have, for faith is either blind or it is not faith but something  
else Ã¢ÂÂ reasoned inference, proved conviction or ascertained knowledge_.   
**Faith is the soul 's witness to something not yet manifested, achieved or  
realised, but which yet the Knower within us, even in the absence of all  
indications, feels to be true or supremely worth following or achieving**.  
_This thing within us can last even when there is no fixed belief in the mind,  
even when the vital struggles and revolts and refuses_. Who is there that  
practises the yoga and has not his periods, long periods of disappointment and  
failure and disbelief and darkness? But there is something that sustains him  
and even goes on in spite of himself, because it feels that what it followed  
after was yet true and it more than feels, it knows. The fundamental faith in  
yoga is this, inherent in the soul, that the Divine exists and the Divine is  
the one thing to be followed after Ã¢ÂÂ nothing else in life is worth having in  
comparison with that. So long as a man has that faith, he is marked for the  
spiritual life and I will say that, even if his nature is full of obstacles  
and crammed with denials and difficulties, and even if he has many years of  
struggle, he is marked out for success in the spiritual life.   
It is this faith that you need to develop Ã¢ÂÂ a faith which is in accordance  
with reason and common sense Ã¢ÂÂ that if the Divine exists and has called you  
to the Path, (as is evident), then there must be a Divine Guidance behind and  
through and in spite of all difficulties you will arrive. Not to listen to the  
hostile voices that suggest failure or to the voices of impatient, vital haste  
that echo them, not to believe that because great difficulties are there,  
there can be no success or that because the Divine has not yet shown himself  
he will never show himself, but to take the position that everyone takes when  
he fixes his mind on a great and difficult goal, "I will go on till I succeed  
Ã¢ÂÂ all difficulties notwithstanding." To which the believer in the Divine  
adds, " _The Divine exists, my following after the Divine cannot fail. I will  
go on through everything till I find him_."   
Excerpt from Letters on Yoga-Sri Aurobindo
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[11] Sri Aurobindo-on Faith  
Author: Ravi.N              Date: November 09, 2012, 05:58:37 PM  
---  
Faith in the spiritual sense is not a mental belief which can waver and  
change. It can wear that form in the mind, but that belief is not the faith  
itself, it is only its external form. Just as the body, the external form, can  
change but the spirit remains the same, so it is here. **Faith is a certitude  
in the soul which does not depend on reasoning, on this or that mental idea,  
on circumstances, on this or that passing condition of the mind or the vital  
or the body**. It may be hidden, eclipsed, may even seem to be quenched, but  
it reappears again after the storm or the eclipse; it is seen burning still in  
the soul when one has thought that it was extinguished for ever. The mind may  
be a shifting sea of doubts and yet that faith may be there within and, if so,  
it will keep even the doubt-racked mind in the way so that it goes on in spite  
of itself towards its destined goal. _Faith is a spiritual certitude of the  
spiritual, the divine, the soul 's ideal, something that clings to that even  
when it is not fulfilled in life, even when the immediate facts or the  
persistent circumstances seem to deny it_. This is a common experience in the  
life of the human being; if it were not so, man would be the plaything of a  
changing mind or a sport of circumstances.   
Excerpt from The Letters on Yoga-Sri Aurobindo
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[12]Topic:  Sri Aurobindo-The Four Aids, a chapter in The Synthesis of Yoga  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 09, 2014, 06:30:38 PM  
---  
**The Foundation of Sadhana**   
The first thing to do in the sadhana is to get a settled peace and silence in  
the mind. Otherwise you may have experiences, but nothing will be permanent.  
It is in the silent mind that the true consciousness can be built.   
A quiet mind does not mean that there will be no thoughts or mental movements  
at all, but that these will be on the surface and you will feel your true  
being within separate from them, observing but not carried away, able to watch  
and judge them and reject all that has to be rejected and to accept and keep  
to all that is true consciousness and true experience.   
Passivity of the mind is good, but take care to be passive only to the Truth  
and to the touch of the Divine Shakti. If you are passive to the suggestions  
and influences of the lower nature, you will not be able to progress or else  
you will expose yourself to adverse forces which may take you far away from  
the true path of yoga.   
Aspire to the Mother for this settled quietness and calm of the mind and this  
constant sense of the inner being in you standing back from the external  
nature and turned to the Light and Truth.   
 **The forces that stand in the way of sadhana are the forces of the lower  
mental, vital and physical nature.** Behind them are adverse powers of the  
mental, vital and subtle physical worlds. These can be dealt with only after  
the mind and heart have become one-pointed and concentrated in the single  
aspiration to the Divine. (Sri Aurobindo, Letters on Yoga, SABCL, Vol. 23, p.  
635)   
 **Equality is the chief support of the true spiritual consciousness and it is  
this from which a sadhak deviates when he allows a vital movement to carry him  
away in feeling or speech or action.** Equality is not the same thing as  
forbearance, --though undoubtedly a settled equality immensely extends, even  
illimitably, a man's power of endurance and forbearance.   
 **Equality means a quiet and unmoved mind and vital, it means not to be  
touched or disturbed by things that happen or things said or done to you, but  
to look at them with a straight look, free from the distortions created by  
personal feeling, and to try to understand what is behind them, why they  
happen, what is to be learnt from them, what is it in oneself which they are  
cast against and what inner profit or progress one can make out of them; it  
means self-mastery over the vital movements,-anger and sensitiveness and pride  
as well as desire and the rest,-not to let them get hold of the emotional  
being and disturb the inner peace, not to speak and act in the rush and  
impulsion of these things, always to act and speak out of a calm inner poise  
of the spirit. It is not easy to have this equality in any full perfect  
measure, but one should always try more and more to make it the basis of one  
's inner state and outer movements.**   
 **Equality means another thing-to have an equal view of men and their nature  
and acts and the forces that move them; it helps one to see the truth about  
them by pushing away from the mind all personal feeling in one 's seeing and  
judgment and even all the mental bias. Personal feeling always distorts and  
makes one see in men's actions, not only the actions themselves, but things  
behind them which, more often than not, are not there. Misunderstanding,  
misjudgment which could have been avoided are the result; things of small  
consequence assume larger proportions.** I have seen that more than half of  
the untoward happenings of this kind in life are due to this cause. But in  
ordinary life personal feeling and sensitiveness are a constant part of human  
nature and may be needed there for self-defence, although, I think, even  
there, a strong, large and equal attitude towards men and things would be a  
much better line of defence. **But for a sadhak, to surmount them and live  
rather in the calm strength of the spirit is an essential part of his  
progress.**   
 **The first condition of inner progress is to recognise whatever is or has  
been a wrong movement in any part of the nature,-wrong idea, wrong feeling,  
wrong speech, wrong action,-and by wrong is meant what departs from the truth,  
from the higher consciousness and higher self, from the way of the Divine.  
Once recognised it is admitted, not glossed over or defended,-and it is  
offered to the Divine for the Light and Grace to descend and substitute for it  
the right movement of the true Consciousness.**   
(Sri Aurobindo, Letters on Yoga, Vol. 23, p. 661)
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[13]Topic:  Sri Aurobindo-The Four Aids, a chapter in The Synthesis of Yoga  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 12, 2014, 09:04:57 PM  
---  
**The inner spiritual progress does not depend on outer conditions so much as  
in the way we react to them from within**? that has always been the ultimate  
verdict of spiritual experience. **It is why we insist on taking the right  
attitude and persisting in it, on an inner state not dependent on outer  
circumstances, a state of equality and calm**, if it cannot be at once of  
inner happiness, on going more and more within and looking from within  
outwards instead of living in the surface mind which is always at the mercy of  
the shocks and blows of life. **It is only from that inner state that one can  
be stronger than life and its disturbing forces and hope to conquer.**   
 **To remain quiet within, firm in the will to go through, refusing to be  
disturbed or discouraged by difficulties or fluctuations, that is one of the  
first things to be learned in the Path.** To do otherwise is to encourage the  
instability of consciousness, the difficulty of keeping experience of which  
you complain. It is only if you keep quiet and steady within that the lines of  
experience can go on with some steadiness ? though they are never without  
periods of interruption and fluctuation; but these, if properly treated, can  
then become periods of assimilation and exhaustion of difficulty rather than  
denials of sadhana.   
 **A spiritual atmosphere is more important than outer conditions** ; if one  
can get that and also create one's own spiritual air to breathe in and live in  
it, that is the true condition of progress.   
Letters on Yoga
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[14]Topic:  Sri Aurobindo-The Four Aids, a chapter in The Synthesis of Yoga  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 13, 2014, 12:21:19 PM  
---  
**When the peace is fully established everywhere in the being, these things  
[reactions of the lower vital] will not be able to shake it.** They may come  
first as ripples on the surface, then only as suggestions which one looks at  
or does not care to look at but **in either case they don 't get inside,  
affect or disturb at all.**   
It is difficult to explain, but it is something like a mountain at which one  
throws stones ? **if conscious all through the mountain may feel the touch of  
the stones, but the thing would be so slight and superficial that it would not  
be in the least affected. In the end even that reaction disappears.**   
Letters on Yoga  
Â« _Last Edit: September 13, 2014, 12:22:53 PM by Nagaraj_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0](http://web.archive.org/web/20160706144933/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org/forum/index.php?topic=7216.0)   
---  

## Re:[1695] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: April 22, 2017, 11:06:39 PM  
---  
Sri Ramana Sannidhi Murai   
by Sri Muruganar, translated from the tamil by Prof K.Swaminathan   
photo : Madhavi Kanumuri   
Song 969
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428](http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428)   
---  

## Re:[1696] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: May 04, 2017, 04:59:27 PM  
---  
Talks with Sri Ramana Maharshi: Isvara Aradhana   
D.: When dukha (misery) overpowers me, enquiry is impossible.   
M.: Because the mind is too weak. Make it strong.   
D.: By what means?   
M.: Sat-sanga, Isvara Aradhana, pranayama ?association with the wise, worship  
of God, breath control. [By these,] misery is removed; our aim is removal of  
misery. You do not acquire happiness. Your very nature is happiness. Bliss is  
not newly earned. All that is done is to remove unhappiness. These methods do  
it.   
Talks 290  
Â« _Last Edit: May 09, 2017, 12:01:27 AM by Balaji_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428](http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428)   
---  

## Re:[1697] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: May 08, 2017, 11:57:57 PM  
---  
I prostrated before him and said, "Bhagavan! I am doing Rama japa. Is not  
Arunachala mantra superior to the other?" "No! No!" said Bhagavan, "Both are  
identical.   
`Ra' means 'That is' and   
'Ma' means `Thou';   
'A' means 'That',   
`Ru' means 'Thou   
`Na' means 'Art ' ;   
and added, "Using your mind as your mouth let the name 'Rama' revolve  
continuously as the Vishnu Chakra (Wheel weapon of Vishnu) within your mind.  
None other need know that you are doing a japa." I interjected, "If I spend  
all my time like that what will happen to my teaching work? Will not my bread-  
winning be in jeopardy?" Bhagavan replied "The one whose name you repeat will  
take full charge of all that, don't fear!"   
N.R.K. Reminiscences Part II   
Boundless ocean of grace Vol.II
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428](http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428)   
---  

## Re:[1698] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: August 31, 2017, 12:11:39 AM  
---  
From face book   
Ramana Maharshi is not known for performing stunning miracles. Instead He is  
known for bestowing spiritual peace on humanity. More importantly he taught us  
how to attract Divine Grace. What is greater? Is it to give food or to impart  
the knowledge of how to cultivate food? Maharshi belonged to the category of  
Mahatmas who empowered individuals to attract the grace of the Divine. One  
such gift is Five hymns to Arunachala which can radically change the spiritual  
condition of one who recites it. His teachings given in the small booklet Who  
am I? are actionable. What is the result of practising His teaching? It is  
that you can throw all your responsibility, all you worry and cares to the  
feet of the Divine and remain free and happy. Even as a traveller in a train  
puts his luggage down without carrying it on his head, the follower of Ramana  
Maharshi traverses life, without being troubled by any burden of any kind.  
There is no higher praise of Him than to say with all your heart Arunachala  
and experience pure joy.  
Â« _Last Edit: August 31, 2017, 12:14:01 AM by Balaji_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428](http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428)   
---  

## Re:[1699] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: September 05, 2017, 01:42:28 AM  
---  
from fb Sri Ramana Maharshi   
 Power of Lord Natarajar's Devotee.   
Today evening Asham worshipped Lord Nataraja and Mother Sivakami with  
abhishekham. A group of thirty Veda Pathasala students and their teachers  
chanted the Vedas. We know that Bhagavan gave liberation to Cow Lakshmi.  
Someone asked Bhagavan Swami, you say that Cow Lakshmi attained liberation;  
but is it not true that only human beings can get moksha Why In Chidambaram a  
devotee of Lord Nataraja, a great saint gave moksha to a thorn bush, said  
Bhagavan with a smile. Upon further inquiry Bhagavan narrated this story: In Chidambaram, there was a saint by the name of Umapathi Sivacharya. He was a  
poet and also a scholar. As he was in an extraordinary state of spirituality,  
he did not pay much attention to the usual Brahminical practices. The pundits  
of the place became angry with him, especially since he was a learned man and  
knew all the precepts of the Hindu religion and they forbade him from living  
in the village or even visiting the temple. He therefore lived in a small hut  
built on a raised ground outside the village. A low caste man called Pethan  
Samban took care of him and also helped him in a general way. One day, Pethan  
was met by Iswara Himself in the guise of the Dikshita in charge of the  
temple, wrote a verse on a palmyra leaf, gave it to him telling him that it  
was to be handed over to Umapathi Sivacharya.   
Pethan gave that verse to Sivacharya, who, on opening it, found in the first  
line itself the words, the servant of the devotees, the Lord of Chidambaram.  
Immediately, he was overwhelmed with devotion and a thrill passed through his  
body as he read the letter. The gist of the verse was A note from  
Chidambaranathan - the servant of the devotees to the person who has set up a  
new establishment, namely Sivacharya. It is your duty to give initiation to  
this Pethan Samban regardless of caste and to the surprise of all people.   
He read the letter and was overwhelmed with joy. In obedience to the orders of  
the Lord, he initiated Pethan into the order of sannyasi, though he belonged  
to the lowest caste and in due course he gave nayana diksha (transmission of  
power through the eyes) to Pethan, immediately after which Pethan vanished  
into holy light. Sivacharya himself was immensely surprised at this occurrence  
and only then understood the wisdom of Pethan.   
Enemies of Sivacharya noticed the sacrificial offerings and other things he  
was having for his initiation and complained to the Government that Sivacharya  
had burnt Pethan to death for some mistake that Pethan might have committed.  
When the king came there with his retinue to enquire into the complaint,  
Sivacharya showed the verse of Lord Nataraja and said that he gave initiation  
to Pethan and that Pethan vanished after that in the form of a divine light  
(Jyoti). The king was surprised and asked Sivacharya if he could likewise give  
initiation and moksha to the thorn bush nearby. Yes. What doubt is there said  
Sivacharya.   
Accordingly he gave nayana diksha to that thorn bush and that too immediately  
disappeared in Pure Light (Jyoti).   
The king was still more astonished at that and said, This looks like some  
black magic. You said Lord Nataraja had written this note. Let us go and ask  
Him.Sivacharya pointed out that there was a ban on his entering the temple.  
Hearing all this, all the people - the pundits, the common people curious  
about the whole thing and the enemies of Sivacharya who were sure he would be  
duly punished - flocked to the temple to see the strange sight. As the two  
entered the temple, and out of regard for the king when Arathi (waving of  
lights) was offered to Lord Nataraja, it was found that on either side of the  
Lord there stood Pethan and the thorn bush. The pundits were surprised and,  
out of fear and remorse, fell at the feet of Sivacharya requesting him to  
pardon them for all their faults. They subsequently brought him back into the  
village with due honours. This story is in Chidambara Mahatmyam. Such is the  
power and glory of saints devoted to the Lord of Chidambaram.  
Â« _Last Edit: September 05, 2017, 01:47:04 AM by Balaji_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428](http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428)   
---  

## Re:[1700] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: September 14, 2017, 12:56:03 AM  
---  
à®¨à®¾à®©à¯ à®à®©à¯ à®°à®®à®£ à®®à®¹à®°à®¿à®·à®¿à®¯à¯ à®¤à¯à®°à¯à®¨à¯à®¤à¯à®à¯à®à¯à®à®¿à®±à¯à®©à¯   
\ à®ªà¯à®°à®¾à®à®¿à®°à®¿à®¯à®°à¯ G.V. à®à¯à®²à¯à®à®°à¯à®©à®¿   
à®¨à®¾à®©à¯ à®à®©à¯ à®°à®®à®£ à®®à®¹à®°à®¿à®·à®¿à®¯à¯à®¤à¯ à®¤à¯à®°à¯à®¨à¯à®¤à¯à®à¯à®à¯à®à®¿à®±à¯à®©à¯ ? à®à®©à¯à®©à®¿à®²à¯ à®¨à®¾à®©à¯ à®à®£à¯à®®à¯à®¯à®¾à®© à®®à¯à®©à®¤à¯à®¤à¯  
à®µà®¿à®°à¯à®®à¯à®ªà¯à®à®¿à®±à¯à®©à¯, à®®à¯à®´à¯à®®à¯à®¯à®¾à®© à®à®®à¯à®¤à®¿à®¯à¯ à®µà®¿à®°à¯à®®à¯à®ªà¯à®à®¿à®±à¯à®©à¯, à®à®¤à¯ à®µà¯à®±à¯à®à¯à®à¯à®®à¯  
à®à®¿à®à¯à®à¯à®à®µà®¿à®²à¯à®²à¯ à®à®©à®à¯à®à¯.   
à®à®¤à¯ à®à®©à¯à®©à¯à®à¯à®¯ à®®à¯à®¯à®±à¯à®à®¿à®¯à®¾à®²à¯ à®à®°à¯ à®ªà¯à®¤à¯à®®à¯ à®à®à¯à®¯à®ªà¯à®ªà® à®®à®¾à®à¯à®à®¾à®¤à¯ à®à®©à¯à®ªà®¤à¯ à®¨à®¾à®©à¯ à®®à¯à®´à¯à®¤à¯à®®à¯  
à®à®±à®¿à®µà¯à®©à¯. à®à®°à¯ à®®à¯à®´à¯à®®à¯à®¯à®¾à®© à®à¯à®°à¯à®µà®¿à®©à¯ à®à®°à¯à®³à¯à®®à¯ à®µà®´à®¿à®¨à®à®¤à¯à®¤à¯à®¤à®²à¯à®®à¯ à®à®©à®à¯à®à¯à®à¯ à®à®à¯à®à®¾à®¯à®®à¯ à®¤à¯à®µà¯  
à®à®¨à¯à®¤ à®à¯à®°à¯ à®à¯à®°à®¿à®¯à®©à¯à®®à¯ à®à®¨à¯à®¤à®¿à®°à®©à¯à®®à¯ à®à®²à¯à®²à®¾à®¤ à®¨à®¾à®à¯à®à¯à®ªà¯ à®ªà®¾à®°à¯à®¤à¯à®¤à®¿à®°à¯à®à¯à® à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à¯à®®à¯  
à®à®²à¯à®²à®¾à®µà®±à¯à®±à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®à®³à®¿à®µà®¿à®à®à¯ à®à¯à®¯à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®à®³à®¿à®¯à¯à®¤à¯ à®¤à®°à®¿à®à®¿à®¤à¯à®¤à®¿à®°à¯à®à¯à® à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à¯à®®à¯, à®®à¯à®´à¯à®¤à¯à®®à¯  
à®à¯à®¤à®¨à¯à®¤à®¿à®°à®®à®¾à®à®µà¯à®®à¯, à®à®ªà®¯à®¤à¯à®¤à®©à¯à®®à¯à®¯à¯à®à¯à®®à¯ à®à®°à¯à®à¯à®à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à¯à®®à¯. à®ªà®à®µà®¾à®©à¯ à®°à®®à®£à®°à¯ à®à®¤à¯à®¤à®à¯à®¯ à®à¯à®°à¯  
à®à®©à¯à®ªà®¤à®¿à®²à¯ à®à®©à®à¯à®à¯ à®à®à¯à®à¯à® à®®à¯à®à®¿à®¯à®¾à®¤ à®¨à®®à¯à®ªà®¿à®à¯à®à¯ à®à®£à¯à®à¯. à®à®¯à®°à¯à®¨à¯à®¤ à®à®³à¯à®à¯à®°à¯à®µà®¾à®à®µà¯à®®à¯  
à®à®¤à¯à®®à®¾à®µà®¾à®à®µà¯à®®à¯ à®à®µà®°à¯ à®¨à®®à®à¯à®à¯à®³à¯ à®à®°à¯à®à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯. à®à®µà¯à®µà¯à®°à¯ à®¨à®¾à®³à¯à®®à¯ à®µà¯à®³à®¿à®¯à®¿à®²à®¿à®°à¯à®¨à¯à®¤à¯  
à®à®³à¯à®³à®¿à®°à¯à®¨à¯à®¤à¯à®®à¯ à®à®µà®°à¯ à®¨à®®à¯à®®à¯à®¯à¯à®²à¯à®²à®¾à®®à¯ à®¤à®©à¯à®©à®¿à®à®®à¯ à®à®´à¯à®à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯ à®à®©à¯à®ªà®¤à¯ à®¨à®¾à®©à¯ à®à®£à®°à¯à®à®¿à®±à¯à®©à¯.   
à®à®¤à¯à®¤à®µà®¿à®°, à®à®£à¯à®®à¯à®¯à¯ à®à®±à®¿à®¯ à®à¯à®±à¯à®±à¯à®µà®´à®¿ à®à®¤à¯à®µà¯à®®à¯ à®à®©à®à¯à®à¯ à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à®¾à®®à¯. à®à®©à®à¯à®à¯à®¤à¯ à®¤à¯à®µà¯à®¯à®¾à®©à®¤à¯  
à®¨à¯à®°à®¾à®, à®à®±à¯à®¤à®¿à®¯à®¾à®©, à®®à®¿à®à®à¯ à®à¯à®±à¯à®à®¿à®¯, à®¨à®¿à®à¯à®à®¿à®¯à®®à®¾à®© à®ªà®¾à®¤à¯à®¯à¯. à®à®¤à¯à®µà¯ à®®à¯à®à®¿à®µà®¾à®à®µà¯à®®à¯ à®à®°à¯à®à¯à®  
à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à¯à®®à¯. à®®à®à®°à®¿à®·à®¿à®¯à®¿à®©à¯ à®ªà®¾à®¤à¯ à®à®¤à¯à®¤à®à¯à®¯à®¤à¯ à®à®©à¯à®ªà®¤à¯ à®¨à®¿à®à¯à®à®¿à®¯à®®à¯ à®µà¯à®±à¯ à®à®¨à¯à®¤ à®à®©à¯à®±à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯  
à®à®ªà¯à®ªà®¾à®¤à¯à®¯à®¿à®²à¯ à®¨à®¾à®à®¿à®¯à®¿à®°à¯à®à¯à® à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à®¿à®¯ à®à®µà®à®¿à®¯à®®à¯ à®à®²à¯à®²à¯. à®¨à®®à¯à®®à¯ à®¨à®¾à®®à¯ à®¨à®¾à®à®¿à®¯à®¿à®°à¯à®¤à¯à®¤à®¾à®²à¯  
à®®à®à¯à®à¯à®®à¯ à®ªà¯à®¤à¯à®®à¯. à®®à®à®°à®¿à®·à®¿ à®µà®¾à®°à¯à®¤à¯à®¤à¯à®à®³à®¾à®²à¯ à®ªà¯à®¤à®¿à®ªà¯à®ªà®¤à®¿à®²à¯à®²à¯, à®®à¯à®©à®¤à¯à®¤à®¾à®²à¯ à®à®ªà®¤à¯à®à®¿à®à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯  
à®à®©à®µà¯ à®¤à®¾à®©à¯ à®¨à®¾à®©à¯ à®à®µà®°à¯à®¤à¯ à®¤à¯à®°à¯à®¨à¯à®¤à¯à®à¯à®à¯à®à®¿à®±à¯à®©à¯. à®à®µà®°à®¤à¯ à®®à¯à®©à®®à¯ à®à®¾à®²à®¤à¯à®¤à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯, à®à®à®¤à¯à®¤à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯  
à®à®à®¨à¯à®¤à¯ à®à®µà®±à¯à®±à¯ à®à®à®à¯à®à®¿ à®à®³à¯à®µà®¤à¯. à®à®µà®°à®¤à¯ à®à®ªà®¤à¯à®à®®à¯à®®à¯ à®ªà®¾à®¤à®¿à®ªà¯à®ªà¯à®®à¯ à®®à®¿à® à®à®´à®®à®¾à®©à®µà¯,   
à®¨à¯à®à¯à®ªà®®à®¾à®©à®µà¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®à¯à® à®à®µà®°à®¤à¯ à®¤à®©à®¿à®¤à¯à®¤ à®à®©à¯à®ªà®µà®¤à¯à®¤à®¿à®²à®¿à®°à¯à®¨à¯à®¤à¯ à®à®µà¯ à®®à¯à®à®¿à®´à¯à®à®¿à®©à¯à®±à®© à®à®µà®°à®¤à¯  
à®à®ªà®¤à¯à®à®¤à¯à®¤à®¿à®©à¯ à®à®à®¿à®ªà¯à®ªà®à¯ à®à®¤à¯à®¤à¯à®µà®¿à®¤ à®µà¯à®¤à®¾à®¨à¯à®¤à®®à®¾à® à®à®®à¯à®¨à¯à®¤à®¾à®²à¯à®®à¯, à®à®¤à¯ à®ªà¯à®°à¯à®®à¯  
à®à®¯à®¿à®°à¯à®¤à¯à®¤à¯à®à®¿à®ªà¯à®ªà¯à®®à¯, à®ªà¯à®¤à¯à®®à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®à¯à®£à¯à®à®¤à¯. à®à®¤à®¿à®²à¯ à®à®²à¯à®²à®¾à®à¯ à®à®®à®¯à®à¯à®à®³à¯à®®à¯ à®à®¨à¯à®¤à®¿à®¤à¯à®¤à¯ à®à®  
à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à¯à®®à¯. à®à®¤à¯ à®à®³à®¿à®®à¯à®¯à®¾à®©à®¤à¯, à®à®¯à®±à¯à®à¯à®¯à®¾à®©à®¤à¯ à®¤à¯à®¯ à®à®°à¯à®ªà¯à®ªà®¾à®®à¯ ? à®¨à®¾à®©à¯ à®à®°à¯à®à¯à®à®¿à®±à¯à®©à¯ ? à®à®©à¯à®±  
à®µà®¿à®´à®¿à®ªà¯à®ªà¯à®£à®°à¯à®µà¯à®à¯ à®à¯à®£à¯à®à®¤à¯. ? à®à®¤à¯à®à¯ à®à¯à®¯à¯à®¯ à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à¯à®®à¯, à®à®¤à¯à®à¯ à®à¯à®¯à¯à®¯ à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à¯à®®à¯ ? à®à®©à¯à®±  
à®à®à¯à®à®¾à®¯à®®à¯, à®à®à®®à¯à®ªà®°à®®à¯ à®à®¤à®¿à®²à¯ à®à®²à¯à®²à¯. ? à®à®°à¯ ? à®à®©à¯à®±à¯ à®à®µà®°à¯ à®à¯à®²à¯à®²à®¿ à®¤à®©à®¤à¯ à®µà®¿à®°à®²à¯à®à®³à¯à®ªà¯  
à®ªà¯à®¤à®¿à®°à®¿à®©à¯ à®à®¤à®¯à®¤à¯à®¤à®¿à®²à¯ à®µà¯à®à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯. à®à®¤à¯ à®ªà¯à®¤à¯à®®à¯ à®à®à®¨à¯à®¤à¯à®¯à®¿à®©à¯ à®¨à¯à®à¯à®ªà®®à®¾à®© à®à¯à®¯à®±à¯à®ªà®¾à®à¯à®à¯ à®à®µà®°à¯  
à®à®±à®¿à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯. à®à®µà®°à¯à®ªà¯ à®ªà®¿à®©à¯à®ªà®±à¯à®± à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à¯à®®à¯ à®à®©à¯à®±à¯ à®¤à®©à®¤à¯ à®à®à®¿à®°à®®à®¤à¯à®¤à®¿à®±à¯à®à¯ à®µà®° à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à¯à®®à¯ à®à®©à¯à®±à¯  
à®à®µà®°à¯ à®¨à®®à¯à®®à®¿à®à®®à¯ à®à¯à®± à®µà®¿à®²à¯à®²à¯ ; à®®à®¾à®±à®¾à® à®¨à®®à®¤à¯ à®à®¤à¯à®®à®¾à®µà¯à®à¯à®à¯ à®à¯à®²à¯à®²à®à¯ à®à¯à®²à¯à®²à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯.  
à®¨à®®à®à¯à®à¯à®³à¯ à®à®°à¯à®à¯à®à¯à®®à¯ à®ªà¯à®©à®¿à®¤ à®à®©à¯à®©à®¿à®¤à®¾à®©à®¤à¯à®¤à¯ à®à®à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯à®ªà®à®¿ à®à¯à®±à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯.   
? à®à®³à¯à®³à¯ à®à¯à®²à¯, à®à®³à¯à®³à¯ à®µà®¿à®à®¾à®°à®¿. à®à®°à¯à®£à®¾à®à®²à®°à¯ à®à®à®¤à¯à®¤à®¿à®²à¯ à®à®°à¯à®à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯ ? à®à®©à¯à®ªà®¤à¯ à®à®µà®°à¯  
à®µà®¾à®à¯à®à¯. à®°à®®à®£à®°à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®à®°à¯à®£à®¾à®à®²à®°à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®ªà®¿à®°à®¿à®ªà¯à®ªà®¤à¯ à®à®©à¯à®ªà®¤à¯ à®®à¯à®à®¿à®¯à®¾à®¤ à®à®¾à®°à®¿à®¯à®®à¯. à®à®µà®°à¯à®à®³à¯  
à®à®à¯à®¤à®¿à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®à®¿à®µà®©à¯à®®à¯ à®ªà¯à®² à®µà¯à®±à®²à¯à®²à®°à¯. à®¤à®¨à¯à®¤à¯ à®®à®à®©à¯ à®à®±à®µà¯à®®à¯à®±à¯à®ªà¯à®²à¯ à®à®µà®°à¯à®à®³à¯ à®à®£à¯à®à¯à®à®ªà¯  
à®ªà®à¯à®à®¾à®²à¯à®®à¯, à®¤à®¨à¯à®¤à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®®à®à®©à¯à®®à¯, à®à®¯à¯à®à¯ à®ªà¯à®°à¯à®®à®¾à®©à¯ à®à¯à®±à¯à®µà®¤à¯à®ªà¯ à®ªà¯à®², à®à®©à¯à®±à¯ à®à®µà®°à¯.   
à®à®©à¯à®©à¯à®à¯ à®à¯à®±à¯à®±à®¿ à®à®à®¨à¯à®¤à¯ à®à®©à¯à®©à¯à®®à¯ à®®à¯à®à®®à¯ à®ªà®à®°à¯à®®à¯ à®ªà¯à®¤à¯à®¤à®¾à®©à¯ à®°à®®à®£à®°à¯à®à¯ à®à¯à®ªà¯à®ªà®¿à®à¯à®à®¿à®±à¯à®©à¯.  
à®à®µà®°à¯ à®µà®°à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯, à®µà®°à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯, à®à®ªà¯à®ªà¯à®¤à¯à®®à¯ à®µà®°à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯ !   
à®®à®¾à®¯à¯ à®à®©à¯à®©à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®à®²à®à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®®à¯à®à¯à®®à¯ à®ªà¯à®¤à¯ à®à®µà®°à¯ à®à®³à®¿à®¯à¯ à®¨à®¾à®©à¯ à®¨à®¾à®à¯à®à®¿à®±à¯à®©à¯ à®à¯à®°à®¿à®¯à®©à¯à®ªà¯à®²à¯  
à®à®µà®°à¯ à®µà®°à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯, à®µà®°à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯, à®à®ªà¯à®ªà¯à®¤à¯à®®à¯ à®µà®°à¯à®à®¿à®±à®¾à®°à¯.   
à®à®²à¯à®²à®¾à®µà®±à¯à®±à®¿à®±à¯à®à¯à®®à¯ à®®à¯à®²à®¾à® à®¨à®¾à®©à¯ à®°à®®à®£à®°à¯ à®¨à¯à®à®¿à®à¯à®à®à¯ à®à®¾à®°à®£à®®à¯, à®à®µà®°à¯ à®¤à®¾à®©à¯ à®à®©à®¤à¯ à®µà®¾à®´à¯à®µà¯,   
à®à®©à®¤à¯ à®®à¯à®à¯à®à¯, à®à®©à®¤à¯ à®¨à®®à¯à®ªà®¿à®à¯à®à¯. à®à®µà®°à®¿à®²à¯à®²à®¾à®¤à¯ à®ªà¯à®©à®¾à®²à¯ à®à®©à®¤à¯ à®µà®¾à®´à¯à®µà¯ à®®à®¿à®à¯à®¨à¯à®¤ à®à¯à®®à¯à®¯à®¾à®à®¿  
à®µà®¿à®à¯à®®à¯. à®à®°à¯à®®à®à¯ à®à®à¯à®à®°à®¤à¯à®¤à®¿à®©à¯ à®à®©à¯à®¤à®¿à®© à®à¯à®¯à®±à¯à®ªà®¾à®à®¾à®à®¿ à®µà®¿à®à¯à®®à¯.   
à®®à¯à®²à¯à®®à¯ à®®à¯à®²à¯à®®à¯ à®¨à®¾à®©à¯ à®ªà®à®µà®¾à®©à¯ à®°à®®à®£à®°à¯à®¯à¯ à®¤à¯à®°à¯à®¨à¯à®¤à¯à®à¯à®à¯à®à®à¯ à®à®¾à®°à®£à®®à¯ à®à®©à¯à®© à®¤à¯à®°à®¿à®¯à¯à®®à®¾ ? à®à®µà®°à¯  
à®à®©à¯à®©à¯à®¤à¯ à®¤à¯à®°à¯à®¨à¯à®¤à¯à®à¯à®¤à¯à®¤à®¤à¯ à®¤à®¾à®©à¯.   
à®¨à®©à¯à®±à®¿ : à®°à®®à®£ à®à¯à®¤à®¿   
from fb ramana mandiram
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428](http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428)   
---  

## Re:[1701] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: September 16, 2017, 12:52:15 PM  
---  
Guru Vachaka Kovai   
65 Being Still   
773 What our Lord (Ramana)firmlyteaches us to take as the greatest and most  
powerful tapas, is only this much :'Summa iru.' There is no other duty for the  
mind and its thoughts." 40.   
774\. The lazy state of just being and shining is the state of self and that  
is the highest state that one can become. Revere as the most virtuous those  
who have attained that lazy state which cannot be attained except by very  
great and rare tapas.41   
Note : 40 Since iru is the imperative of both the verb ' to be ' and the verb ' to  
stay' summa iru canbe translated by a wide variety of expressions: ' just be '  
, ' be still', ' stay quiet', ' be as you are ' ' stay as you are ' and so on.  
This verse appears to be a comment by Muruganar, rather than a statement by  
Bhagavan.   
41. Bhagavan appears to be making fun here of those people who said that a sadhana of being still was an incitement to laziness.   
The Power of The Presence Vol.II   
by David Godman
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428](http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428)   
---  

## Re:[1702] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: September 26, 2017, 06:29:57 PM  
---  
Sri Bhagavan would mix all the food together, add hot water and make a kind of  
porridge that would then be shared equally among all those presence.   
Devotees who found this home-made gruel unappetizing would sometimes request  
that at least some salt should be added to the mixture. But where are we to  
get the salt? Sri Bhagavan would ask, Who will give us salt unless we  
specifically ask for it? If once we relax our rule of non-begging in order to  
get the salt, the palate that craves for salt today will next cry out for  
sambar, then for rasam then for buttermilk and so on. Its cravings will thus  
grow endlessly. Because of this we should stick to our rule of non-begging.   
Chhaganlal V Yogi   
The Power of the Presence Vol.II
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428](http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428)   
---  

## Re:[1703] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: November 17, 2017, 02:49:08 PM  
---  
3\. Though I had evil karma and did not know of any refuge, though I was  
ignorant and totally worthless, even so, he established me in the blissful  
ocean of silence, the indescribable treasure of Grace, severing all bonds.   
Ramanatha Brahmachari, The Power of Presence David Godman, Vol.III
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428](http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428)   
---  

## Re:[1704] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: November 17, 2017, 03:02:42 PM  
---  
Ramanatha Brahmachari's relationship with Chinnaswami had already been  
strained by an incident that had taken place a few years earlier. Chinnaswami  
had asked Ramanatha Brahmachari to stop spinning thread saying that it would  
damage his already weak eyesight. Ramanatha Brahmachari refused. Somehow,  
this seemingly innocuous conversation degenerated into a violent   
quarrel in which Chinnaswami started rolling the diminutive figure of  
Ramanatha Brahmachari along the ground. Kunju Swami intervened when it looked  
as if Chinnaswami was about to roll Ramanatha Brahmachari down some stone  
steps. Chinnaswami, in an attempt to enforce his authority, shouted 'Do you  
know who I am?. Ramanatha Brahmachari replied meekly, If we knew that we  
wouldn't be in this quarrel".   
The Power of Presence, David Godman Vol III
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428](http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428)   
---  

## Re:[1705] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: January 27, 2018, 01:28:29 PM  
---  
BHAGAVAN?S ECONOMY   
 "You should be capable of making use of even the dust while at the same  
time you should also be ready to reject entire cosmos as mere dust!" These  
were the potent words given by Bhagavan to me, when we were together cutting  
vegetable. Bhagavan was keen on using every bit of the vegetables for  
cooking; usually, the stem portion of a brinjal is cut off and thrown away.  
Bhagavan would gather these 'rejects' and utilise them in some other  
preparation. He would say that the stem portion is most nutritious. He would  
use the whole spinach, stem and all and not just the green leaves alone. He  
would grind the stem take out the juice and use it in rasam. Bhagavan frowned  
on wastage. Like vegetables, paper too was to be used with the utmost care and  
economy. Every bit of paper would be preserved by Him. He would bind them into  
small note-books, according to their size. He himself would bind them, keeping  
with him gum, calico, needle and twine for this purpose. And He would use  
these materials only when and to the extent they were required. His day-to-  
day life was by itself a great lesson for every one of us. He taught by  
exemple economy and non-waste not only of materials but of words too, both  
spoken and written. How much He said in so few words!   
Viswanatha swami   
Boundless Ocean of Grace Vol.II
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428](http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428)   
---  

## Re:[1706] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: February 13, 2018, 10:56:43 AM  
---  
from fb Sri Ramana Maharshi   
At the sight of him who in his heart has fixed the Lord Siva's Feet, Death is  
reminded of his bygone disastrous encounter with Markandeya and flees away.  
All other gods worship only Siva, placing their crowned heads at His feet.  
Such involuntary worship is only natural to Siva. Goddess Liberation, His  
consort, always remains part of Him. (Verse 65) Sivananda Lahari by Adi  
Shankaracharya   
Men of pure minds who intensely fear death surrender themselves unto the Lord  
of all,   
the blissful One, the indwelling Self, who has no death nor birth. By that  
(surrender)   
their ego, along with their attachments, becomes extinguished. How can they  
who (thus) have won abode in Immortality, have any thought of death? Sri  
Ramana Maharshi Benediction. Indeed when such Lord appears before us he acts  
as follows on Sivaratri Day> (Note the onion)   
There was an old shepherdess who used to visit Bhagavan in the early years,  
when he was on the Hill and would offer Him koozhu (gruel), saying: You are  
simply sitting like this all day long. At least, have this please. She once  
came on a Sivaratri day around   
1948 with a large pot full of koozhu and some sliced onions for side dish.  
Though a rich and variegated fare was to be served to all on that festive day,  
Bhagavan said that he cared more for the koozhu   
but urged others to partake of the sumptuous feast. When all those   
present expressed willingness to share the koozhu (overlooking the onion) and  
begged Him to taste the rest of the fare too, Bhagavan agreed. I was there and  
watched Bhagavan intently. He sat in the   
dining hall and simply waited till all the items were served, then mixing them  
all up together, ate the gruel!   
Maha Sivaratri Today   
Â« _Last Edit: February 13, 2018, 10:58:19 AM by Balaji_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428](http://web.archive.org/web/20180214172928/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg95428)   
---  

## Re:[1710] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: September 21, 2018, 01:53:37 PM  
---  
Sinner
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1711] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: September 21, 2018, 01:56:23 PM  
---  
Surrender
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1712] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: October 04, 2018, 06:06:32 PM  
---  
One morning for example, Sri Bhagavan, while explaining a verse from Upadesa  
Saram, remarked Breath control can only produce manolayam, that is temporary  
suspension of mind.One-pointed meditation and concentration alone can lead to  
manonasam, that is, destruction of mind.   
I mentioned to Sri Bhagavan that when I tried to do this kind of meditation, I  
often ended up falling asleep.   
Sri Bhagavan replied, Of course, one should be alert in sadhana and guard  
against sleep as far as one can. But it doesnt matter if sleep overpowers  
you. The moment you wake up, catch the current of your meditation and  
continue. Sleep will not prove to be a hindrance.   
from The Power of the Presence Vol III   
G V Subbaramayya
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1713] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: October 31, 2018, 06:01:08 PM  
---  
I once prepared some semia (noodles) beautifully. They were fluffy and  
separate. He squeezed his share into a hard little ball and chewed it.   
Why are you doing that, Bhagavan?I asked. You have spoiled your noodles. They  
are not meant to be squeezed like this. Why all this separateness? he asked.  
Should not all be one indistinguishable whole?   
He had ruined his meal merely to teach me a lesson in Vedanta!   
Sampuranamma   
The Power of the Presence Part 3   
David Godman   
Â« _Last Edit: January 09, 2019, 06:20:46 PM by Balaji_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1714] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: November 16, 2018, 06:21:51 PM  
---  
Bhagavan once made some similar comments when somebody presented him with a  
bell that was to be used during the ashram pujas. He tried its sound in  
various ways and laughed.   
God wants us to make a fire of our past evil deeds and burn our karma in it.  
But these people burn a small amount of camphor and hope to please the  
Almighty. Do they really believe that they can get something for nothing?  
They do not want to bend to God, they want God to bend to them. In their  
greed they would swallow God, but they will not let him swallow them. Some  
boast of their offerings. What have they got to offer? Some idols of  
Vinayaka are made of jaggery. Devotees break off a piece of these statues and  
offer it to him. Are these pieces not his already? Clearing the mind of  
thoughts and remaining steady in the peace of Self; that is the only offering  
worthy of the Lord?.   
Subbalakshmi amma, Kitchen worker, The Power of the Presence, Part III,  
David Godman   
Â« _Last Edit: January 09, 2019, 06:21:08 PM by Balaji_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1715]Topic:  Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Beloved Abstract    Date: November 23, 2018, 08:01:21 AM  
---  
i remember one time in band camp. ......
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1716] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: November 29, 2018, 02:27:56 PM  
---  
Self of my Self! My eye flits from form to form without respite but nowhere  
does it find true interest or satisfaction, but when it lights on You, it  
adheres and rests there, still forever.   
My mind is distracted by a thousand thoughts. It suffers unceasing torment,  
but when it thinks of You, it is irresistibly drawn, like a magnet, to a  
vision of You, and rests on You in never-ending peace.   
My heart is perpetually agitated with stormy passions. It is often torn with  
terrific conflicts of contrary emotions. But when it feels its way to You,  
its storm yields place to calm, it recovers its equilibrium and its floats on  
the ocean of eternal bliss.   
My life has been like a troubled torrent, running zigzag on uneven ground,  
sometimes overflowing its banks and inundating all around, and sometimes  
drying up and sinking into the sands. It seemed to have no set direction or  
aim. Only when at last it merged and flowed in You, did it attain its  
ultimate destination and complete fulfilment.   
You are my sole refuge!   
 G V Subbaramayya, The Power of the Presence Part III, David Godman
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1717] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: December 11, 2018, 06:05:29 PM  
---  
During the visit in which Sri Bhagavan gave Indira her mantra, he asked me  
about my son-in-law's health because he knew it had been causing me some  
anxiety for several months. I took this as a cue to tell him all about my  
domestic cares and worries.   
Sri Bhagavan looked me full in the face and with utmost sympathy he spoke to  
me in melting stones, Why cant you be like me? You know how I was when I  
arrived in Tiruvannamalai. There was a time when I went around the town  
begging for food. In those days I was observing silence, I would pass down the  
street, halting for a moment in front of a house. Standing there would  
gently clap my hands. If there was no response, I would pass on. Whatever  
food was obtained by me and other associates, we would mix it into one mass  
and take a morsel each. We ate only once a day. Now you see what changes  
have come outwardly, what buildings have been raised This ashram has grown  
up around me, but I am ever the same. Only the sun rises and sets. To me  
there seems no other change. So, through all the vicissitudes of good and  
evil, be like me, and whenever you are prone to depression or melancholy,  
remember me.?   
These gracious words of Sri Bhagavan have been with me ever since. They  
protect me as a talisman against all the ills of life.   
G V Subbramayya, The Power of the Presence, Part III. David Godman
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1718] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: January 08, 2019, 04:58:03 PM  
---  
I rarely felt that I was making much progress, so I once asked Bhagavan, How  
many times will I have to be born to get Jnana   
There are no factors like time and distance, answered Bhagavan. In one hour we  
dream that many days and years have passed by. Dont you see in a cinema film  
mere shadows being transformed into great seas, mountains and buildings. The  
world is not outside you. It happens within you, like in a cinema show. The  
small world that is in the mind appears as a big world outside.   
Because I had this nagging feeling that I was not making much headway in  
spiritual matters, I once complained, Bhagavan your grace is not on me!.   
Bhagavan replied, You are speaking like one who, standing shoulder deep in  
the flood waters of the Ganges, complains that he is thirsty and says that he  
wants water from a tap in Tanjavur to be brought to quench his thirst.   
Rangan, Bhagavan friend   
from the power of the presence vol I, David Godman  
Â« _Last Edit: January 09, 2019, 06:19:56 PM by Balaji_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1719] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: January 09, 2019, 06:17:38 PM  
---  
from fb Sri Ramana Maharshi   
Relief from Suffering.   
When a person suffers, he seeks relief. Bhagavan's friend Rangan faced  
difficulties as predicted by astrology and sought His counsel on what to do.  
Bhagavan told him to come and stay with during the period of suffering.  
Needless to say, he overcame all the troubles.   
Adi Sanskaracharya composed a hymn to the Divine Mother which throws light on  
His way of mitigating trouble. The hymn is called Devi Aparadha Kshama Stotram  
meaning the hymn for the forgiveness of offence given to the Divine Mother.  
Acharya confidently declares Tvad-Anusarannam Klesha-Harannam meaning  
following you is to be freed from all suffering. Indeed, what suffering can  
touch those who worship the Divine Mother or take refuge in Her. Let us read  
from His composition.   
à¤¨ à¤®à¤¤à¥à¤°à¤ à¤¨à¥ à¤¯à¤¨à¥à¤¤à¥à¤°à¤ à¤¤à¤¦à¤ªà¤¿ à¤ à¤¨ à¤à¤¾à¤¨à¥ à¤¸à¥à¤¤à¥à¤¤à¤¿à¤®à¤¹à¥   
à¤¨ à¤à¤¾à¤¹à¥à¤µà¤¾à¤¨à¤ à¤§à¥à¤¯à¤¾à¤¨à¤ à¤¤à¤¦à¤ªà¤¿ à¤ à¤¨ à¤à¤¾à¤¨à¥ à¤¸à¥à¤¤à¥à¤¤à¤¿à¤à¤¥à¤¾à¤ à¥¤   
à¤¨ à¤à¤¾à¤¨à¥ à¤®à¥à¤¦à¥à¤°à¤¾à¤¸à¥à¤¤à¥ à¤¤à¤¦à¤ªà¤¿ à¤ à¤¨ à¤à¤¾à¤¨à¥ à¤µà¤¿à¤²à¤ªà¤¨à¤   
à¤ªà¤°à¤ à¤à¤¾à¤¨à¥ à¤®à¤¾à¤¤à¤¸à¥à¤¤à¥à¤µà¤¦à¤¨à¥à¤¸à¤°à¤£à¤ à¤à¥à¤²à¥à¤¶à¤¹à¤°à¤£à¤®à¥ à¥¥à¥§à¥¥   
Na Matram No Yantram Tad-Api Ca Na Jaane Stutim-Aho   
Na Ca-[A]ahvaanam Dhyaanam Tad-Api Ca Na Jaane Stuti-Kathaah   
Na Jaane Mudraas-Te Tad-Api Ca Na Jaane Vilapanam   
Param Jaane Maatas-Tvad-Anusarannam Klesha-Harannam 1   
Meaning: 1.1: (O Mother) Neither Your Mantra, Nor Yantra (do I know); And Alas, Not  
even I know Your Stuti (Eulogy),   
1.2: I do not know how to Invoke You through Dhyana (Meditation); (And Alas),  
Not even I know how to simply recite Your Glories (Stuti-Katha),   
1.3: I do not know Your Mudras (to contemplate on You); (And Alas), Not even I  
know how to simply Cry for You,   
1.4: However, one thing I know (for certain); By following You (somehow  
through rememberance however imperfectly) will take away all my Afflictions  
(from my Mind),   
à¤µà¤¿à¤§à¥à¤°à¤à¥à¤à¤¾à¤¨à¥à¤¨ à¤¦à¥à¤°à¤µà¤¿à¤£à¤µà¤¿à¤°à¤¹à¥à¤£à¤¾à¤²à¤¸à¤¤à¤¯à¤¾   
à¤µà¤¿à¤§à¥à¤¯à¤¾à¤¶à¤à¥à¤¯à¤¤à¥à¤µà¤¾à¤¤à¥à¤¤à¤µ à¤à¤°à¤£à¤¯à¥à¤°à¥à¤¯à¤¾ à¤à¥à¤¯à¥à¤¤à¤¿à¤°à¤­à¥à¤¤à¥ à¥¤   
à¤¤à¤¦à¥à¤¤à¤¤à¥ à¤à¥à¤·à¤¨à¥à¤¤à¤µà¥à¤¯à¤ à¤à¤¨à¤¨à¤¿ à¤¸à¤à¤²à¥à¤¦à¥à¤§à¤¾à¤°à¤¿à¤£à¤¿ à¤¶à¤¿à¤µà¥   
à¤à¥à¤ªà¥à¤¤à¥à¤°à¥ à¤à¤¾à¤¯à¥à¤¤ à¤à¥à¤µà¤à¤¿à¤¦à¤ªà¤¿ à¤à¥à¤®à¤¾à¤¤à¤¾ à¤¨ à¤­à¤µà¤¤à¤¿ à¥¥à¥¨à¥¥   
Vidher-Ajnyaanena Dravinna-Virahenna-Alasatayaa   
Vidheya-Ashakyatvaat-Tava Carannayoryaa Cyutir-Abhuut   
Tad-Etat Kssantavyam Janani Sakalo[a-U]ddhaarinni Shive   
Kuputro Jaayeta Kvacid-Api Kumaataa Na Bhavati 2   
Meaning: 2.1: (O Mother) Due to Ignorance of the Vidhis (Injunctions of Worship), and  
due to lack of Wealth, as well as due to my Indolent (Lazy) nature,. ..   
2.2:. .. (Since) It was not possible for me to serve Your Lotus Feet; there  
have been Failures on the performance of my duties (I admit that),   
2.3: (But) All these are pardonable (by You), O Mother; because You are the  
Saviour of All, O Shivaa (Auspicious Mother),   
2.4: There can be Kuputra (fallen disobedient son turning away from Mother),  
but there can never be Kumata (Mother turning away from son permanently),  
Â« _Last Edit: January 09, 2019, 06:19:35 PM by Balaji_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1720] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: February 07, 2019, 01:20:31 PM  
---  
Sri Bhagavan Himself also remarked on a number of occasions Nayana (Ganapati  
Muni) used to say, It is easy for me to send the mind forward but impossible  
for me to make it go backward, that is, to turn it inward. I can go forward  
(that is, towards second and third persons)at any distance at any speed, but  
I find it difficult to take even one step backward (that is, towards the first  
person)   
The Path of Sri Ramana part I
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1721] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: February 09, 2019, 01:25:07 PM  
---  
O Bhagavan, meditating upon You is nothing   
other than contemplating I, Contemplating I is   
nothing other than remaining without thought,   
Remaining without thought is nothing other than   
being vigilantly attentive not to rise as I, But why   
even attend, when my very existence (sat) is itself   
attention (chit).   
Sri Ramana Sahasram, verse 990   
The Path of Sri Ramana Part One
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1722]Topic:  Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Beloved Abstract    Date: March 05, 2019, 07:05:40 AM  
---  
ramble on, on and on and on and on and. ....
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1723] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: March 27, 2019, 06:11:12 PM  
---  
In his case it is the same as Dattatreya, who says in the beginning of the  
Avadhoota Gita: How can I bow to Him, Who is Formless, Undifferentiated and Indestructibe, who  
is the essence of Bliss, and Who has through Himself by Himself and in Himself  
filled up everything..   
My Humble Tribute to Sage Ramana   
Manu Subedar,   
Book Arunachala Ramana Vol VI
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[1724] Bhagavan Ramana Teachings  
Author: Balaji              Date: March 30, 2020, 01:55:43 PM  
---  
"à®®à®¨à¯à®¤à¯à®¯à®¾à® à®à¯à®à®¿à®¯à®¾à®©à¯à®®à®¾à®à¯à®à®³à¯ à®®à¯à®¯à¯à®ªà¯à®ªà®µà®©à¯ à®à®¨à¯à®¤à¯ à®°à®®à®£à®à¯à®à¯à®©à¯"   
à®à®à¯à®°à®® à®à¯à®à®¾à®²à¯à®ªà¯ à®ªà®à¯à®à®®à¯ à®µà®¨à¯à®¤ à®ªà®à®µà®¾à®©à¯ à®à®à¯à®à¯ à®à®¿à®±à®¿à®¤à®®à®°à¯à®¨à¯à®¤à¯ à®ªà®à¯à®à¯à®à®³à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯ à®à®©à¯à®±à¯à®à®³à¯à®¯à¯à®®à¯  
à®ªà®¾à®°à¯à®¤à¯à®¤à®µà®¾à®±à®¿à®°à¯à®¨à¯à®¤à®¾à®°à¯. à®à®¤à®±à¯à®à¯à®³à¯ à®ªà®£à®¿à®¯à®¾à®³à®°à¯ à®à®°à¯à®µà®°à¯ à®¹à®¾à®²à®¿à®²à¯ à®ªà®à®µà®¾à®©à®¤à¯ à®¤à®°à¯à®à®©à®¤à¯à®¤à®¿à®±à¯à®à®¾à®à®ªà¯  
à®ªà®²à®°à¯ à®à®¾à®¤à¯à®¤à®¿à®°à¯à®ªà¯à®ªà®¤à®¾à®à®à¯ à®à¯à®±à®¿à®©à®¾à®°à¯.   
à®à®¤à¯à®à¯ à®à¯à®à¯à®à®¤à¯à®®à¯ à®ªà®à®µà®¾à®©à¯ à®à®à¯à®à®¿à®°à¯à®¨à¯à®¤ à®à¯à®à®¾à®²à¯ à®µà¯à®²à¯à®à¯à®à®¾à®°à®°à¯à®à®³à¯ à®¨à¯à®à¯à®à®¿, "à®à®°à®¿ à®à®à¯à®à®³à¯  
à®µà¯à®²à¯à®¯à¯ à®¨à¯à®à¯à®à®³à¯ à®à®µà®©à®¿à®¯à¯à®à¯à®à®³à¯, à®¨à®¾à®©à¯ à®à®©à¯ à®µà¯à®²à¯à®¯à¯à®ªà¯ à®ªà®¾à®°à¯à®à¯à®à®ªà¯ à®ªà¯à®à®¿à®±à¯à®©à¯' à®à®©à¯à®±à¯  
à®à¯à®²à¯à®²à®¿, à®¹à®¾à®²à¯ à®¨à¯à®à¯à®à®¿ à®¨à®à®¨à¯à®¤à®¾à®°à¯.   
à®à¯à®±à®¿à®ªà¯à®ªà¯: à®ªà®à®µà®¾à®©à¯ à®®à¯à®²à¯ à®à¯à®±à®¿à®¯ à®à®µà®°à®¤à¯ à®µà¯à®²à¯ à®à®©à¯à®© à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à¯à®à®¾à®²à¯, "à®®à®¨à¯à®¤à¯à®¯à®¾à®  
à®à¯à®à®¿à®¯à®¾à®©à¯à®®à®¾à®à¯à®à®³à¯ à®®à¯à®¯à¯à®ªà¯à®ªà®µà®©à¯ à®à®¨à¯à®¤à¯ à®°à®®à®£à®à¯à®à¯à®©à¯" à®à®©à¯à®±à¯à®®à¯ à®¸à¯à®°à¯ à®°à®®à®£ à®à®¨à¯à®¨à®¿à®¤à®¿à®®à¯à®±à¯à®ªà¯  
à®ªà®à¯à®¤à®¿ à®¨à®¿à®©à¯à®µà¯à®à¯à®à¯ à®µà®°à¯à®à®¿à®©à¯à®±à®¤à¯. à®ªà®à®µà®¾à®©à¯à®à¯à®à¯ à®à®¤à¯ à®à®°à¯ à®µà¯à®²à¯à®¯à¯ à®¨à®¾à®®à¯ à®à®±à¯à®ªà®¿à®ªà¯à®ªà®¤à®¾à®¯à®¿à®©à¯,  
à®à¯à®µà®°à¯à®à®³à¯ à®®à¯à®±à¯à®ªà®¾à®°à¯à®¤à¯à®¤à¯à®¤à¯ à®¤à®©à¯à®©à®¿à®²à¯à®¯à®¾à®®à¯ à®¨à®©à¯à®¨à®¿à®²à¯ à®à¯à®°à¯à®ªà¯à®ªà®¤à¯ à®à®µà®°à®¤à¯ à®µà¯à®²à¯. à®à®µà®°à¯à®¤à®®à¯  
à®à®¯à®²à¯à®ªà¯à®¯à®¾à®®à¯ à®à®©à¯à®à¯à®°à®à®®à¯ à®à®µà®°à®¤à¯ à®ªà®£à®¿ à®à®©à¯à®±à¯ à®à¯à®²à¯à®² à®µà¯à®£à¯à®à¯à®®à¯.   
from tamil fb Sri Ramana Maharishi
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891](http://web.archive.org/web/20200331105927/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7222.msg100891)   
---  

## Re:[30]Topic:  Pearls from the bhAgavatA  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 04, 2013, 11:00:14 AM  
---  
Dear Friends,   
I always wanted to share this article "BHAKTI DEVI AND HER TWO SONS" from  
Bhagavata Mahatmyam, but since it is big article, it has been evading. i shall  
post this in series of posts. Those who have listened to Guru Nochur's  
pravahcam may be familiar. Devotees may assimilate the ambrosia herein.   
\--
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818](http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818)   
---  

## Re:[31]Topic:  Pearls from the bhAgavatA  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 04, 2013, 11:06:19 AM  
---  
BHAKTI DEVI AND HER TWO SONS   
 **Introduction**   
Srimad Bhagavata Mahatmyam: The first chapter is Srimati Bhakti Devi narrating  
her story to Sri Narada Muni, a story of despair at the current age of Kali  
and its effects, especially on her two sons, Jnana and Viragya. The second  
chapter is where Sri Narada Muni speaks about the glory of Bhakti and the one  
benefit of the age of Kali. Also the Sanat Kumaras instruct Sri Narada Muni to  
speak the Srimad Bhagavatam as the means for reviving Jnana and Viragya. The  
third chapter is where the Srimad Bhagavatam is glorified and Jnana and  
Vairagya are revived appearing in Badrikasrama with Bhakti Devi chanting the  
Holy Names of the Lord.   
Suta Goswami had said to the rsis headed by Saunaka, "I'll tell you a story,  
bhakti-katha, a story full of bhakti. What I have heard from my Guru, Sukadeva  
Goswami in a secluded place, I'll will tell you."   
 **The Age of Kali**   
Once in the Badrikasram the four Kumaras Sanaka, Sanatana, Sanandana, Sanat  
Kumara appeared there. They are always five year old boys, always naked. They  
are the first born sons of Bramha, not ordinary personalities. They appeared  
there in Badrikasram.   
So at that time, they saw Devasi Narada looking very morose. The four Kumaras  
said, "Oh Naradaji, why are you so morose? Your face indicates that you are  
very much morose. Why? What is the reason for your moroseness? From where are  
you coming? Where are you going? It seems that you have lost a very valuable  
asset and therefore you look morose like that. What is the reason?"   
Narada said, "I wandered everywhere in this material world and I cannot get  
satisfaction at all because this Kali Yuga has come, Kali yuga is the age of  
sinful activity. Such sinful activities are rampant, people are envious of  
each other, quarrelling and fighting, so much enviousness is there. All of  
these things are going on. What is the condition of Kali Yuga? "   
This is Kali yuga, there is no truthfulness, everyone is speaking lies. All  
are affected by Kali yuga. There is no tapasya, no austerity, no penance, no  
sadachara. All human beings are only engaged in how to fill their belly,  
eating, sleeping, defending and mating, this is our activities in Kali Yuga.   
Intelligence is bad, fortune is bad, manda-bhagya, suffering from disease, so  
many diseases are there. There are so called sadhus, pseudo sadhus. They are  
running after a woman and wealth, no krsna-katha.   
In every grha, household women are predominating, not men. The brother of the  
wife is minister, gives instruction, do this, do that. Every human being has  
developed so much greed for the objects of sense enjoyment. They earn money,  
money, money. They are selling their own daughters. Only quarrelling goes on.  
Fighting between husband and wife. Fighting between father and son, fighting  
between friends. Everybody thinks I am great, I am great. This damba, pride is  
the measuring rod in Kali Yuga. Two persons quarrel and fight, two groups  
quarrel and fight, two communities quarrel and fight, two neighbors quarrel  
and fight, all are quarrelling and fighting. Aham bada hai! "I am great!" This  
is Kali yuga.   
In Bharata-varsa, India, all the ashrams headed by the brahmacari-asaram are  
polluted, all holy places, the holy rivers, all are occupied by melechhas and  
yavanas. This is Kali yuga. Many, many temples are broken down. It is very,  
very difficult to get siddha-sadhaka because everything is being burnt by  
forest fire, the Kali yuga is like a forest fire."   
"In Kali yuga all the human beings are so greedy, so greedy. They are only  
thinking how to earn money, money, money. Brighter than sunshine, sweeter than  
honey, more money, more money, more money. They are selling rice, anna in the  
baazar. Anna should not be sold. Anna should be distributed, but they are  
selling! This is Kali yuga. In other yugas it is not done like that.   
Those brahmanas are selling Vedas! Yes, they are utilising the Bhagavata like  
a mercantile commodity. They are selling it to earn their livelihood. Women  
are selling their hair and making wigs. Selling their body and becoming  
prostitutes to earn money. This is Kali yuga." In the Western world it is  
very, very true.   
End of Part 1; to be continued  
Â« _Last Edit: September 04, 2013, 11:09:00 AM by Nagaraj_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818](http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818)   
---  

## Re:[32]Topic:  Pearls from the bhAgavatA  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 04, 2013, 11:15:54 AM  
---  
**Vrndavana Dhama**   
Narada Muni said, "Just seeing all this, wandering through all the world, I  
cannot get any happiness or any satisfaction. At last, I came to Vrndavana  
dhama. There Krsna played His rasa dance. Oh great sages! I saw a wonderful  
thing there, a wonderful incident. I went to the banks of the Yamuna River and  
there I saw one young lady, a devotee maiden, sitting there crying and crying.  
She was very, very unhappy. On her left hand side two old men were there, just  
lying there, very, very old and breathing heavily. This lady was serving them  
taking care of them, sometimes giving consolation, sometimes crying.   
I also saw some sadhus and innumerable young maidens there. The sadhus and the  
young maidens were saying to the crying maiden, "Oh Devi, oh goddess, have  
patience, have patience, good fortune will come to you. Lord Krsna will  
definitely shower mercy on you." They were saying this again and again. I  
became amazed. I approached the maiden out of curiosity. Seeing me that young  
lady, who was sixteen years old, stood up and greeted me saying, "Oh sadhu,  
Narada Muni, you are a great sadhu, please stay here. Seeing you I feel some  
consolation, some solace in my heart. I hope you will definitely give me  
consolation and my distress will vanish, because when someone meets a sadhu,  
it is to be understood that good fortune has arisen for him. I think because a  
sadhu like you has come, some good fortune has come to me."   
[ tatrapi durlabham manye   
 vaikuntha-priya-darsanam   
Even those who have achieved human life rarely gain the association of pure  
devotees, who are dear to the Lord of Vaikuntha. ]   
End of Part 2; to be continued..
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818](http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818)   
---  

## Re:[33]Topic:  Pearls from the bhAgavatA  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 04, 2013, 11:23:27 AM  
---  
**Bhakti Devi and Her Two Sons**   
Narada said, "Oh Devi, O goddess, who are you? Why are these old men lying  
here? Why are these young ladies here? What is your tale of woe, please tell  
me?"   
Then that young lady said, "I am Bhakti. I am celebrated by this name Bhakti  
Devi. These two old men are my sons, Jnana and Viragya, they have grown old,  
affected with old age." Mother is young, sons are old, it is the complete  
opposite. "All these ladies you see are all the holy tirthas headed by Ganga,  
Yamuna, etc. They have come here to serve me." They have come to serve the  
Goddess Bhakti. "Though I am served by them, still I have no happiness, I have  
no good fortune. I am very, very distressed and unhappy. Oh Narada Muni,  
please listen to my tale of woe. If I speak then I'll get some solace in my  
heart." Yes, if you speak your tale of woe to your friend then you will get  
some solace, yes.   
Bhakti Devi continued, "My birthplace is Dravida bhumi, South India. I grew up  
in Karnataka and sometimes I stayed in Maharashtra [to the North] but when I  
went to Gujurat I became old. Kali reigns there in Gujurat, yes. Many pasandis  
reside there. They injure my body and I became old. My sons became old and  
morose lacking all vitality. They had no strength. So now I have come to  
Vrndavan. When I entered into Vrndavan I got back my youth. I am now young  
again, but my sons are not getting back their youth, they are still old.   
Bhakti Devi said: idam sthanam parityajya videsam gamyate maya, I want to  
leave this place to go to the Western countries, a foreign land, why I'll stay  
in this land? I am now young but my sons are old, therefore I am much  
distressed." Mother is young while her sons are old, have you seen this  
anywhere? It is completely opposite?   
Narada Muni said, "This has happened to you but don't feel distressed. You are  
famous as Bhakti devi. Definitely Lord Hari will shower His mercy on you and  
you will find happiness."   
Suta Goswami continued to narrate the story to the Rsis headed by Sanaka.   
Narada Muni immediatley understood everything and said, "Oh Devi please hear  
from me. This is a very, very dreadful age now in Kali yuga, all sat-karma is  
completely destroyed and the yoga-marga, the path of yoga is completely lost.  
In Kali Yuga all are sinful persons: papis, cheaters and hypocrites. Their  
numbers are rampant, increasing and all of them are engaged in sinful  
activities as they are now all demons.   
santo hy asmin su-duhkharta asanto hrsta-manasah   
drsyate dhira-cittas tu pandito Âpi na ko Âpi ca   
[Srimad-bhagavata-mahatmyam ch.1, vs.57]   
In Kali yuga such pasandis are very happy, they are very happy, but those who  
are real sadhus are suffering.   
End of Part 3; to be continued..
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818](http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818)   
---  

## Re:[34]Topic:  Pearls from the bhAgavatA  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 04, 2013, 11:28:38 AM  
---  
**The Burdon of Mother Earth**   
Narada Muni said, "Alright, please have patience, please have patience. Those  
who are patient are dhira, they are never bewildered, dhiras tatra na muhyati  
[BG 2.13]. The burden of the earth is increasing day by day in Kali yuga  
because her inhabitants are all demons. Demons are a great burden on the  
earth. Ananta deva who is carrying this earth is feeling her to be heavier and  
heavier. No auspiciousness is there in Kali Yuga, such a dreadful age.   
No one is now taking care of your two sons, Jnana and Viragya. They are  
completely ignored in Kali yuga because the demons are very much attatched to  
sense gratification and material enjoyment. Who wants Jnana and Viragya?  
Therefore, you are distressed. This is good fortune that you have come to  
Vrndavan dhama. You have regained your youth because in Vrndavan only bhakti  
dances here. Bhakti Devi dances here in Vrndavan, but there are no customers  
in Vrndavan of Jnana and Viragya. We all want bhakti but no one wants Jnana  
and Viragya, therefore your two sons cannot get back their youth. They cannot  
give up their old age because there is no one who wants them. Nobody wants  
Jnana and Viragya in Vrndavan dhama. Still they have got some little happiness  
here, therefore they are sleeping. They are having a very sound sleep."  
End of Part 4; to be continued   
Â« _Last Edit: September 04, 2013, 11:31:38 AM by Nagaraj_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818](http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818)   
---  

## Re:[35]Topic:  Pearls from the bhAgavatA  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 04, 2013, 11:39:59 AM  
---  
**The One Benefit of Kali Yuga**   
Bhakti Devi said, "Why didn't Pariksit Maharaja kill Kali? Why he didn't kill?  
Merciful Lord Hari is tolerating all these things now, how is He letting all  
these things happen? This is my doubt, please dispell my doubt."   
Then Narada said, "Oh Devi, alright, I'll tell you. You please hear then all  
your doubts will be dispelled and you will get some solace if you hear this  
katha."   
drsto dig-vijaye rajna dina-vac charanam gatah   
na maya maraniyo Âyam saranga iva sara-bhuk   
yat phalam nasti tapasa na yogena samadhina   
tat phalam labhate samyak kalau kesava-kirtanat   
[Srimad-bhagavata-mahatmyam ch.1, vs. 66-67]   
Narada Muni said, "When Pariksit Maharaja was wandering in the world, he saw  
Kali and was going to kill him but Kali took shelter and surrendered to him.  
This is the dharma of a ksatriya, if someone surrenders he will give him  
shelter and not kill him. Therefore, Pariksit Maharaja is a sadhu, so he is an  
ideal ksatriya. He therefore didn't kill Kali.   
kaler dosa-nidhe rajan   
asti hy eko mahan gunah   
kirtanad eva krsnasya   
mukta-sangah param vrajet   
[SB 12.3.51]   
 "My dear King, although Kali-yuga is an ocean of faults, there is still  
one good quality about this age: Simply by chanting the Hare Krsna maha-  
mantra, one can become free from material bondage and be promoted to the  
transcendental kingdom."   
But, though this Kali yuga is a horrible age, a most sinful, degraded age, so  
many evils are here like an unlimited ocean, still one good thing is here. If  
one chants Krsna-kirtan immediately you will be delivered. Such an opportunity  
is not available in any other yuga. What people achieved through tapasya,  
yoga-sadhana and samadhi of other yugas, people of Kali yuga will achieve only  
by doing Hari-kirtan, Krsna-kirtan. They will get all the same results. For  
this reason, Kali yuga is such a good age. Pariksit Maharaja understood all  
these things therefore he did not kill Kali. If he had killed Kali then this  
benefit of Kali Yuga would not have been available.   
End of Part 5; to be continued
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818](http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818)   
---  

## Re:[36]Topic:  Pearls from the bhAgavatA  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 04, 2013, 11:42:53 AM  
---  
**The Nature of Kali Yuga**   
People in Kali yuga are engaged in all abominable activities, sinful  
activities. The essence of Bhagavata-katha is lost because all are non-  
devotees avaisnavas pandits. Their activities are selling the Bhagavata,  
utilising the Bhagavata as a mercantile commodity to earn money. Such  
'pandits' are there in Vrndavan giving bhagavata-pravacan and earning money.  
Some also come to the Western world speaking Bhagavata-katha and earn millions  
of dollars.   
There are no real brahmans in Kali yuga, kalau sudra sambhavah. All are  
sudras, only hypocrites going to every household speaking Bhagavata and  
earning money. Therefore the essence is lust. The people of Kali yuga are  
affected with lust, anger, delusion. Some demons undergo severe austerities  
and tapasya. The result of tapasya is only lust.   
Those who are materialistic pandits, day and night, they are like dogs or hogs  
only enjoying sex. They are very expert in producing children. They are  
completely forgetful of their goal of life in Kali yuga. This is such a  
dreadful age and this is its nature. So who shall I blame, it is the nature of  
Kali yuga. Lotus eyed Lord Hari is tolerating everything.   
End of Part 6; to be continued
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818](http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818)   
---  

## Re:[37]Topic:  Pearls from the bhAgavatA  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 04, 2013, 11:43:58 AM  
---  
**The Promise of Narada Muni**   
Then Bhakti Devi said, "O Devarsi Narada, you are glorified, very good fortune  
has come to me because you have come here and I met you. It is very rare to  
have the darshan of a sadhu."   
Narada said,   
baddhvanjalim tvaya prstam kim karomiti caikada   
tvam tadajnapayat krsno mad-bhaktan posayeti ca   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam, ch. 2, vs. 6]   
"Oh Devi, one day you approached Lord Krsna with folded hands and asked Him  
what shall I do? At that time Krsna said, "You maintain my devotees." That  
order is there with you. It is Krsna's order. Krsna became very much pleased  
with you. So he gave mukti as your maid servant and gave Jnana and Viragya as  
your two sons."   
anya-dharmams tiras-krtya puras-krtya mahotsavan   
tada naham harer daso loke tvam na pravartaye   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam ch. 2, vs. 14]   
Then Narada promised, "If I cannot establish bhakti, if I cannot establish you  
and instead only varnasramadi-dharma and other dharmas are there, I promise,  
I'll never go by this name of Hari dasa." Such a promise Narada Muni made to  
Bhakti Devi.   
 **Sri Krsna is Submitted by Prema Bhakti**   
nrnam janma-sahasrena bhaktih su-krtinam bhavet   
kalau bhaktih kalau bhaktir bhaktya krsnah purah-sthitah   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam ch. 2, vs. 19 ]   
Those persons who have accumulated sufficient pious activities for thousands  
of births achieve bhakti because by execution of bhakti alone, one is able to  
situate himself in the abode of the supreme Lord Krishna.   
manusyanam sahasresu   
kascid yatati siddhaye   
yatatam api siddhanam   
kascin mam vetti tattvatah   
[Bg. 7.3]   
Out of thousands among men, one makes an endeavour for perfection. Those very  
few who reach perfection, hardly one may understand Me in tattva.   
It's not an easy to endeavour for perfection in Kali yuga, it is very, very  
difficult. After thousands and thousands of years and thousands and thousands  
of births, one maybe attracted towards bhakti. But in Kali yuga only bhakti is  
there. There is no jnana, karma or yoga. Kalau nasty eva nasty eva nasty eva  
gatir anyatha, [Cc. Adi 17.21]. No other way is there, three times it is  
mentioned. Karma, jnana and yoga: these three are denied in Kali yuga, only  
bhakti is there.   
Krsna only becomes submitted by prema-bhakti, ÂBhaktyeÂ krsna vasa haya, [Cc  
Mad. 20.136]. Krsna appears before his pure devotee, a premi-bhakta, otherwise  
Krsna will never appear."   
End of Part 7; to be continued
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818](http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818)   
---  

## Re:[38]Topic:  Pearls from the bhAgavatA  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 04, 2013, 11:45:48 AM  
---  
**Awakening of Jnana and Viragya**   
Then Narada tried his best to awaken Jnana and Viragya. In their ears he very  
loudly shouted, "O Jnana! O Viragya! Wake up! Wake up!" But they were not  
waking up. Seeing it was not possible to wake them by this means, Narada Muni  
then uttered the Upanisadas and then the Gita, again and again in their ears.  
He thereby tried his best to awaken them. They would just raise their heads a  
little and then fall back asleep: "Ahhh! Ahhh!" Nothing would awaken them.   
They were very, very old and all their hairs had grown white like a crane.  
Their limbs were very, very weak, like dry wood. Seeing this, Narada Muni  
became very distressed and thoughtful. "What shall I do? I cannot see any  
means to awaken them. Why aren't they awakening from sleep? Why isn't their  
old age going away? Then as he remembered Bhagavan Govinda, one aerial voice  
came and spoke, "O Devarsi Narada, don't be distressed, don't be disappointed.  
Your endeavour must be fruitful, there is no doubt in it. Sadhus like you are  
the ornaments of the world. You go and meet some sadhus, they will tell you  
what is sat-karma. If you do that sat-karma, then Jnana and Viragya's old age  
will be reversed. They will wake up and become young again and Bhakti Devi  
will be blissful. Mother Bhakti will dance everywhere." The aerial voice spoke  
to Narada in this way.   
 **Establishing Bhakti and the Sat-Karma for Kali Yuga**   
Narada Muni thought where are those sadhus who can tell me what is sat-karma?  
Narada Muni went to Badarikasrama and saw the four Kurmars. "O Devarsi Narada,  
you are glorified, you are the chief Hari Dasa and dear devotee of Krsna. Only  
you can establish bhakti. We will tell you what is sat-karma-sadhana. Please  
hear: sat-karma sucako nunam jnana-yajnah smrto budhaih   
srimad-bhagavatalapah sa tu gitah sukadibhih   
bhakti-jnana-viraganam tad-ghosena balam mahat   
brajisyati dvayoh kastam sukham bhakter bhavisyati   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam, ch. 2, vs. 60-61]   
The four Kumars said, "All pandits have said jnana and viragya are sat-karma.  
Jnana-karma is bhagavata-katha, the Bhagavata spoken by Sukadeva Goswami. If  
you do that sat-karma, bhagavata-katha, speak the Bhagavata [Srimad  
Bhagavatam] then Bhakti Devi's Jnana and Viragya will get strength. Bhakti  
Devi will be blissful and her sons will regain their youth and strength, yes.  
This is sat-karma.   
pralayam hi gamisyanti srimad-bhagavata-dhvaneh   
kali-dosaime sarve simha-sabdad vrka iva   
jnana-vairagya-samyukta bhaktih prema-rasavaha   
prati-geham prati-janam tatah kridam karisyati   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam, ch. 2, vs. 62-63]   
Hearing the roaring of a lion, a tiger becomes fearful and flees. Similarly in  
this Kali yuga if a pure devotees, a pure bhakta-bhagavata speaks bhagavata,  
then all the ills of Kali yuga will be destroyed. Jnana and Viragya along with  
Bhakti Devi will get their strength and there will be a flood of prema, yes.  
If this bhagavata-prema coming from bhagavata-katha will innundate every house  
then Bhakti Devi will be blissful and Jnana and Viragya will become young  
again."   
End of Part 8; to be continued..
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818](http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818)   
---  

## Re:[39]Topic:  Pearls from the bhAgavatA  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 04, 2013, 11:47:32 AM  
---  
Narada said, "I have already spoken the Upanisadas and the Gita in their ears,  
again and again, but they did not wake up. Why they didn't wake up since you  
are saying bhagavata-katha will do so? How is it possible? Bhagavata is the  
essence of all the Vedas, Vedanta, Upanisadas including the Gita. I spoke  
continuously in the ears of Jnana and Viragya and they still did not wake up.  
How they are not waking up? This is the essence of the Vedanta, Upanisadas.   
The Kumars said, "Yes that's a fact. Bhagavata is the essence of all the Veda  
Vedanta, Upanisadas, but the Srimad Bhagavatam is their fruit, nigama-kalpa-  
taror galitam phalam, [SB 1.1.3]. This is the most ripened, sweetest nectarean  
juice of the Vedic tree. It is a product of the tree of Bhagavata. As for  
example, ghee is there in the milk, but if someone drinks milk, can he taste  
the ghee? If milk could be prepared into butter and all the water removed then  
ghee can be prepared. One can then taste the ghee in the milk.   
cari-vedaÂ'dadhi', bhagavataÂ'navanita'   
mathilena suke, khailena pariksita   
[CB. Mad 21.16]   
"The four Vedas are like yogurt, and Srimad Bhagavatam is like the butter.  
Sukadeva Goswami churned the Veda to produce the Bhagavatam and Pariksit  
Maharaja relished this butter, the Srimad Bhagavatam."   
Yogurt contains water but Sukadeva Goswami churned that yogurt so butter came  
out, then Pariksit Maharaja ate this butter. Similarly, as sugar is there in  
the sugar cane juice, it gives sweetness. When sugar cane juice is boiled and  
condensed to extract sugar then one can taste the sweetness in the sugar.   
Similarly, in bhagavata-katha, this bhagavata is nigama-kalpa-taror galitam  
phalam, [SB 1.1.3]. It is the most ripened, sweetened, nectarian juicy fruit  
of the Vedic tree. If the fruit is collected from the Vedic tree then that is  
the Bhagavata. When Bhagavata is recited by a premi-bhakta then you can taste  
its sweetness.   
yatra bhagavati varta tatra bhakty-adikam vrajet   
katha-sabdam samakarnya tat trikam tarunayate   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam, ch. 3, vs. 9]   
Where bhagavata-katha is spoke by a premi-bhakta, where Bhagavata-patha  
pravacana is going on then Bhakti Devi, Jnana and Viragya run there, they run  
there. Hearing this bhagavata-katha they regain their youth and strength.   
The Kurmaras said, "Hearing the glories of the Bhagavata, Mukti becames a maid  
servant. Mukti is the maid servant of Bhakti Devi. Where there is bhakti, then  
mukti becomes a maid servant.   
This is the glory of the Srimad Bhagavatam, yes. Sadyo hrdy avarudhyate Âtra  
[SB 1.1.2] Sri Hari who is there in the heart immediately becomes bound up,  
yes. Such is the glory of Bhagavata. This is a daily activity. Therefore as  
one has daily activities; one eats food daily, take bath, passes stool, all  
these things are done daily, similarly, one should read and hear Srimad  
Bhagavatam daily. Not even one day should be missed. If you follow my  
instructions then all your miseries and sufferings will be gone, yes. You'll  
become a very handsome looking young man, no more old age, you will be  
youthful. Daily we should hear Srimad Bhagavatam.   
The Kumaras said: tavat samsara-cakre Âsmin bhramate Âjnanatah puman   
yavat karna-gata nasti suka-sastra-katha ksanam   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam, ch. 3, vs. 27]   
ÂAs long as one has not heard Bhagavata-katha from the lips of Sukadeva  
Gosvami, he will never be free from the dense darkness of ignorance. He will  
remain covered by this ignorance, and continuously revolve in the cycle of  
birth and death.Â   
katha bhagavatasyapi nityam bhavati yad grhe   
tad grham tirtha-rupam hi vasatam papa-nasanam   
asva-medha-sahasrani vajapeya-satani ca   
suka-sastra-kathayas ca kalam narhanti sodasim   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam, ch. 3, vs. 29-30]   
ÂAny home where bhagavata-katha is recited daily or any place where bhagavata-  
patha pravacana is going on then that house becomes tirtha, holy place. The  
sinful reactions of the residents of that house will be destroyed immediately.  
They receive the results of performing thousands of asvamedha-yajnas, horse  
sacrifices and one hundred vajapeya-yajnas, yes. Such a result they get. Not  
only this result but just one-sixteenth the benefit of hearing Srimad-  
Bhagavatam is as good as performing one thousand asvamedha-yajnas, horse  
sacrifices and one hundred vajapeya-yajnas."   
tavat papani dehe Âsmin nivasanti tapodhanah   
yavan na sruyate samyak srimad-bhagavatam naraih   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam, ch. 3, vs. 31]   
"O Narada Muni, tapodhanah, as long as human beings have not heard bhagavata-  
katha then all the sins will reside in their bodies."   
slokardham sloka-padam va nityam bhagavatodbhavam   
pathasva sva-mukhenaiva yadicchasi param gatim   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam, ch.3, vs. 33]   
If you really want to achieve the supreme perfection in your life, you should  
utter one Bhagavatam verse daily. That is why we write and recite the  
Bhagavatam sloka at the beginning of Srimad Bhagavatam class every morning.  
This is non-different from Krsna. If somebody utters half a verse or one  
fourth of a verse daily he gets param gatim, the supreme destination.   
yas ca bhagavatam sastram vacayed arthato Ânisam   
janma-koti-krtam papam nasyante natra samsayah   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam, ch. 3, vs. 37]   
If someone speaks and explains one sloka of the Bhagavata daily, if he does  
bhagavata-pravacan, the sinful reactions that he may have accumulated for  
crores of lives will be destroyed. There is no doubt in it, yes. He is  
considered sukrtivan vyakti, a pious and fortunate person. If he explains,  
even utters half a verse, or a fourth of a verse he gets the results of  
performing rajasuya-yajna and asvamedha-yajna, the horse sacrifice and  
rajasuya sacrifice performed by great emperors.   
anta-kale tu yenaiva sruyate suka-sastra-vak   
pritya tasyaiva vaikuntham govindo Âpi prayacchati   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam, ch. 3, vs. 40]   
"If a person who is dying, at the time of death hears bhagavata-katha that has  
come out from the lips of Sukadeva Gosvami, then Lord Govinda will be very  
much pleased with him and gives him a place in Vaikuntha-loka. Therefore this  
Vedic system is there in India, if somebody is about to die, people will  
recite the Bhagavata before him. Let him hear the Srimad Bhagavatam because he  
will go to Vaikuntha. This understanding is there in India. In the Western  
countries it is not there, but this is a fact."   
dhik tam naram pasu-samam bhuvi bhara-rupam   
evam vadanti divi deva-saroja-mukhyah   
[Srimad Bhagavata-mahatmyam, ch. 3, vs. 43]   
"He is the most unfortunate person who has not even drunk one drop of this  
amrta, nectar emanating from Bhagavata-katha. He is a great sinful person, and  
though he is living he is a dead body, jivan-mrtya. He is a great burdon on  
Mother Earth."   
Therefore, O Narada Muni, you should perform this sat-karma, bhagavata-patha-  
pravacana. Make such arrangements. There are no rules or regulations for  
performing bhagavata-patha-pravacana. At any place, any time, one can speak  
bhagavata-katha. It is sravana-kirtan. So make arrangment for this sravana-  
kirtan of bhagavat-katha. This Bhagavata is saksad-dhari, is as good as Lord  
Hari and is the vani-avatara, the vani incarnation of Lord Krsna. By serving  
the Bhagavata, hearing Bhagavata, reading Bhagavata, seeing Bhagavata, no pap,  
sin will remain in the body of such a person.   
Suta Goswami said, "Sanakadi, the four Kumaras in this way glorified the  
Bhagavatam."   
End of Part 9; to be continued..
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818](http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818)   
---  

## Re:[40]Topic:  Pearls from the bhAgavatA  
Author: Nagaraj             Date: September 04, 2013, 11:50:14 AM  
---  
**The Appearance of Bhakti Devi**   
Suta Goswami continued, "At that time a wonderful incident took place. Please  
listen, I am telling."   
Immediately Bhakti Devi, assuming the form of a very young maiden with her two  
sons Jnana and Viragya appeared there. Her sons were no longer old but  
youthful. All of them were uttering, Krsna Govinda Hare Murare Madhu  
Kaitavare. They are uttering the name of Krsna Govinda Hari Murari, again and  
again. This is the wonderful incident that took place.   
At that time, the munis were arguing amoung themselves how Bhakti Devi  
appeared here at Badarikasrama? The Kumars said, "Bhakti Devi has appeared  
with her two sons, Jnana and Viragya because of this Bhagavata-katha,  
glorifing the Bhagavata."   
Then Bhakti Devi offered obeisances to the four Kumars. She said, "In this  
Kali yuga my limbs have been injured here but hearing the glories of  
bhagavata-katha from your mouth, O Sanat Kumar, I am nourished now. My full  
youthful body has returned and my two sons have also regained their youth. But  
where shall I stay now?"   
Then the Kumar's said, "You are Bhakti Devi, you stay with the bhaktas,  
devotees, those who are dear devotees of Lord Hari. You maintain the bhaktas,  
thereby they can get prema, krsna-prema. Their bhava-roga, material diseases,  
janma-mrtyu-jara-vyadhi, [Bg. 13.9] will be completely gone. So this is your  
place. Please stay in the heart of such vaisnavas, that is your place, yes.  
Always you should stay, patiently, in the heart of such vaisnavas, bhaktas."   
Concluded.   
One may interchange Bhakti Devi to Jnana Devi or Varagya as well. Let the  
reader not to misled that this is only glorifying Bhakti. The essence is that  
one cannot be without the others, BHAKTI - VAIRAGYA - JNANA. They all are just  
ONE!   
Bhagavan willing, i will also post the story of Atma Deva. yet another  
excellent story!   
\--   
\--  
Â« _Last Edit: September 04, 2013, 11:52:32 AM by Nagaraj_  
Content:
 ---  
Source:[http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818](http://web.archive.org/web/20130924172150/http://www.arunachala-ramana.org:80/forum/index.php?topic=7224.msg53818)   
---  

